Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


fl 

1 

iiJ! 


i 
I 
i 


Wholesome  Faee 

OOHPBISIHQ  THB 

LAWS  OF  FOOD  AND  THE  PRACTICE  OF  COOKERY 

AND    EMBODYING   THB    BEST    BRITISH    AND 
CONTINENTAL    RECEIPTS 

WITH 

HINTS  AND  USEFUL  SUGGESTIONS  FOB  THE  SEBENTABY, 
THE  SICK,  AND  THE  CONVALESCENT 

BY 

Dr.   &   Mrs.   DELAMEEE 

SECOND  EDITION,   REVISED 


^r\k 


LONDON 
CROSBY    LOCKWOOD    AND    CO. 

7   BTAnOHKBer-HALL  COtlBT,  LUDdATE  HILL 

1878 


PEEFACE. 


MAmr  PEOPLE — after  dining  at  a  table  served  in 
superior  style  to  their  own,  and  while  enjoying 
the  easy  digestion  which  is  the  combined  result  of 
good  cookery,  pure  wine,  and  pleasant  company 
— say  to  themselves  resignedly :  '  All  this  is  very 
agreeable ;  but  it  is  quite  out  of  the  question  for 
us.  We  have  not  the  material,  means,  and  ap- 
pliances to  do  it.  We  might  as  well  attempt  to 
grow  hot-house  grapes  in  the  open  air,  in  our 
little  back-garden.  It  is  useless  to  attempt  it.' 
And  the  dinner  remains  a  souvenir^  instead  of 
serving  as  an  example. 

Such  despondent  persons  clearly  make  a  mis- 
take as  to  what  they  may  attempt,  and  what  they 
may  not.  The  extra  ornamentation,  the  super- 
abundance of  plate,  the  multitude  of  viands  may 
well  be  let  alone ;  but  the  object  of  the  following 
pages  is  to  show  that  the  real  essentials  of  a 
good  dinner,  i.e.  a  few  good  dishes,  may  be  had 
by  those  who  have  the  courage  to  will  it.  To  be 
convinced  of  this,  the  reader  has  only  to  study  our 
chapter  on  bills  of  fare,  and  the  receipts  for  the 
dishes  composing  them.  They  coniprise  choice 
specimens  both  of  British  and  continental  cookery, 
and,  on  inspecting  them  coolly  and  carefully,  it 


VI  PREFACE. 

will  be  found  that  the  difficulty  of  their  execution 
is  rather  imaginary  than  real  True,  there  are 
some  that  require  to  be  seen  dbne  or  shown ;  but 
even  our  own  plain  cookery  has  its  compUcations. 
George  m.  was  puzzled  to  guess  how  ever  the 
apple  could  get  inside  the  dumpUng ;  and  the 
cook  who  dares  face  the  preparation  of  Christmas 
plum  pudding  and  hot  mince  pies,  is  a  coward  if 
she  run  away  in  terror  from  a  vol-au-vent,  or  a 
calf's  head  ct  la  toriue.  For  those  kinds  of  dishes 
it  has  been  our  endeavour  to  give  a  clear  under- 
standing of  their  composition. 

Other  points  which  we  have  been  anxious  to 
insist  on  are,  the  hygienic  eflfects  of  cookery,  and 
the  relative  value  of  the  different  kinds  of  food. 
On  these  we  have  enlarged  more  than  some  may 
think  necessary ;  after  perusal,  however,  they  wiU 
probably  acknowledge  that  such  topics  are  not 
only  relevant,  but  highly  important. 

Our  readers  will  not  feel  offended  at  being 
reminded  why  some  articles  of  diet  are  good, 
others  indifferent,  and  others  bad — that  popular 
belief  may  be  sometimes  mistaken  in  the  nutritive 
value  it  attributes  to  certain  articles — ^that  jellies 
and  arrowroot  pap  are  not  nourishing,  whUe  pease 
soup  and  pudding,  bean-flour,  oatmeal  CTuel,  and 
dried  haricots  made  into  a  stew  decidedly  are. 

Besides  the  passages  relating  to  what  may  be 
fiiirly  called  the  philosophy  of  cookery,  it  is  hoped 
that  useful  suggestions  will  be  found  in  the  pages 
devoted  to  the  sick,  the  sedentary,  and  the  con- 
valescent That  the  reader  may  never  want  to 
turn  to  them  is  our  hearty  wish. 

E.  S.  &  K  J.  D. 


CONTENTS. 


I- 


PAOI 

L  OxHSRALiTiES — Gonsideratioiis  tonohing  Food 

and  its  lelatioiis  to  Health          ...  1 

n.  Operations — ^Boiling,  Boasting,  Ac,  and  their 

Effects 41 

III.  Utensils — ^Kitchen  Beqnisites  and  their  Em- 
ployment      56 

lY.  Blbvbnts — ^First  Materials  and  (Combinations, 
on  which  all  Cookeiy  is  based,  with  Hints 

for  their  Preparation  and  Use    ...  64 

V.  Hoes  d'CEuvreb— Whets,   Kickshaws,  Side- 

Dishes,  &o 79 

VI.  Sauces 103 

Vn.  Beothb  and  Soups* 133 

Vin.  Fish 195 

EL  Eggs 301 

X.  Made  Dishes 325 

XI.  Beef 340 

Xn.  Mutton  and  Lamb 361 

Xm.  Veal 380 

XIV.  Pork 398 


VUl  CONTENTS. 

VAOR 

XV.   POULTBT  AND  GaMB 439 

XVI.  Vegetables 610 

XVIL  Salads 564 

XVm.  Sweets  and  Thibd-Goubse  Dishes             .  58« 

XIX.  Beyebaqes 

XX.  Suhdries  and  Wrinkles      ....  663 

XXI.  Bills  of  Fare,  with  Reasons  fob  them     .  690 

« 
XXII.  Conclusions  :  affecting  Sedentary,  Profes- 
sional, AND  Literart  Persons  .  732 


*  "As  almost  every  Body  wants  to  know  how  to  dress  their  Yictaals 
in  the  best  Manner,  though  eyeiy  Body  is  not  in  a  Condition  to  hire  a 
Cook  for  that  Purpose,  Til  be  theirs,  for  once,  and  inform  them  how  all 
Sorts  of  Meats,  viz.  Butchers'  Meat,  Fowls,  Fishes,  Pulse,  &c.,  are  to 
be  dress'd,  to  flatter  the  Palate,  and  excite  the  Appetite.  I'll  begin 
with  the  Manner  of  making  Soups,  or  Broths,  since  it  is  the  first  Dish 
which  commonly  comes  upon  the  Table  of  those  who  loye  those  Sort 
of  Dishes,  and  who  pretend  to  live  in  an  elegant  Manner,  hero  in 
England ;  for  in  other  Countries,  especially  in  Francty  Soup  is  one  of 
the  most  common  Dishes,  but  not  always  those  delicious  Soups  I  am 
going  to  make." — Dbnkis  de  Coetlooon's  Unwcrsal  History  of  Arts 
and  SeimceSf  vol.  i.  p.  827. 


WHOLESOME'   FARE; 


OB, 


THE  DOCTOR  AND  THE  COOK. 


GENERALITIES. 

CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD,  AND  ITS  RELATIONS 

TO  HEALTH. 

The  Doctor,  unsupported  by  the  Cook's  material  aid, 
and  the  Cook,  unguided  by  the  Doctor's  knowledge,  are 
two  powerful  agents,  half  whose  strength  is  paralysed  or 
misdirected.  Combine  their  lights  and  their  resources, 
and  you  have  at  your  command  efficient  means  of  allevi- 
ating or  even  curing  numerous  ills  which  flesh  is  heir  to. 
If  the  Doctor  and  the  Cook  together  can  do  nothing  with 
a  case,  it  is  indeed  past  hope  of  recovery.  We  thereby 
receive  an  unmistakable  warning  that  there  is,  in  fact,  a 
Law  of  Nature,  to  which  we  must  all  of  us  finally  submit 
But  so  long  as  our  term  remains  yet  unexpired,  wc 
naturally  wish  to  enjoy  both  health  and  the  allowable 
pleasures  attendant  on  health,  the  value  of  which  we 
apprecnate  the  more,  the  further  we  advance  in  years. 


2  CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

At  forty,  every  man  is  either  a  fool  or  a  physician ; 
at  forty,  therefore,  every  man  is  either  a  fool  or  else  a 
little  bit  of  a  cook.  By  others'  faults,  wise  men  correct 
their  own ;  by  listening  to  the  complaints  of  others'  indi- 
gestions, wise  men  will  ward  off  attacks  of  indigestion 
in  their  own  proper  persons.  Besides  which,  we  have  all 
of  us « stomachs,  on  which  we  have  been  experimenting, 
more  or  less,  during  the  lapse  of  forty  long  years.  But 
all  that  is  required  to  avoid  gastronomic  errors,  and  their 
consequent  pains  and  penalties,  is  a  knowledge  of  the 
principles  of  animal  nutrition  and  cuUnaiy  chemistry^ 

Food  is  taken  in,  in  some  shape,  by  all  living  crea- 
tures, for  the  purpose  both  of  effecting  growtli  and  of 
repairing  loss  or  wear  and  tear  of  the  bodily  frame. 
No  growth  can  take  place  without  a  proper  supply  of 
material.  It  is  clear,  therefore,  that  if  a  creature  do  not 
eat,  it  cannot  grow. 

The  same  is  true  of  wear  and  tear.  We  cannot  even 
live  without  thereby  consuming  a  portion  of  our  stock 
of  strengtL  Every  vital  act  is  an  expenditure  of  capital, 
which  must  be  replaced  by  an  adequate  supply  of  food. 
If  that  food  is  not  forthcoming,  the  constitution  rapidly 
lapses  into  bankruptcy. 

If  there  existed  some  one  article  of  food,  a  restora- 
tive for  every  form  of  exhaustion,  a  panacea  for  every 
degree  of  fatigue,  the  duties  of  the  Doctor  and  tfae 
Cook  would    be  wonderfully  simplified.*      It    is   the 

*  Hippocrates  and  his  followers  beliered  that  there  was  a  unique 
nutritiTe  principle  common  to  all  articles  of  food— «  single  primitire 
alimentary  element,  identical  throughout  all  nature^and  tried  hard 
to  difcorer  it. 


Ain>  ITS  BELATIOKS  TO  HEALTH.  8 

immense  difference  in  the  qualities  of  food^  and  the 
diffisrent  powers  possessed  bj  individuals  (according  to 
their  state  of  health,  constitution,  and  circumstance)  of 
extracting  nutriment  firom  food,  which  make  their  task 
and  their  responsibilitj  so  heavy. 

It  is  needless  to  insist  that  Man's  organisation  is 
adapted  to  the  consumption  of  both  animal  and  vegetable 
food,  thereby  indicating  the  enormous  range  of  his 
dietary.  The  celebrated  Magendie  proved  by  experiment 
that  it  is  difficult  to  sustain  life — at  least  in  animals  whose 
organs  most  resemble  those  of  man — ^with  one  single  kind 
of  food  taken  alone  during  a  certain  lapse  of  time,  even 
if  highly  nutritious  in  quality.  ^^  A  diversity  and  mul* 
tiplioiiy  of  aliments,"  he  says,  ^^  is  a  most  important 
hygienic  rule.  It  is,  moreover,  indicated  by  our  natural 
instincts,  as  well  as  by  the  variations  which  the  seasons 
bring  about  in  the  nature  and  kind  of  alimentary  sub- 
stances." 

Animal  food  satisfies  hunger  more  completely  and 
fer  a  longer  time  than  vegetables,  for  reasons  which 
will  be  shortly  given ;  animal  food  is  also  more  open 
to  the  attack  of  our  digestive  organs  than  vegetables, 
or,  in  other  words,  more  readily  excites  the  assimilating 
powers  of  the  stomach.  But,  of  whatever  kind  the  food, 
much  depends  upon  the  mode  of  preparation— on  thb 
C0OK£BT.  A  large  proportion  of  the  nutritious  elements 
may  be  wasted  and  lost,  or  they  may  all  be  preserved. 
In  good  broths  and  soups,  for  instance,  every  thing 
is  retained  except  the  little  that  is  removed  as  scum. 

Cookery  acts  on  food  by  diminishing  the  firmnesa 


4  COKSmSBATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

and  hardness  of  some  articles,  and  by  inoreasing  it  in 
others.  It  alters  their  flavour,  their  smell,  their  appear- 
ance, if?hich  are  sometimes  repugnant  to  our  senses.  It 
deprives  them  of  bitter,  acrid  principles,  which  might 
prove  injurious  to  the  stomach,  or  even  to  the  whole 
economy.  It  heightens  their  savouriness,  and  increases 
their  action  by  the  addition  of  aromatic,  pmigent,  and 
stimulant  ingredients. 

The  best  cookery  in  the  world,  says  Ude,  is  worth- 
less without  seajsoning.  The  precept  is  true  as  a  general 
maxim;  but  it  is  impossible  for  any  Cook-Book,  ^ppecially 
one  like  the  present,  to  specify  the  exact  dosage  of  season- 
ing to  be  put  into  any  dish,  because  not  only  tastes,  but 
stomachs,  difier  as  to  the  amount  of  salt  and  spice  which 
suits  them.  The  cook's  practice  must  be  guided  by  the 
habits  and  wishes  of  her  employer,  whose  use  of  season- 
ings will  depend  upon  considerations  of  health.  At  the 
outset,  and  till  after-inquiry,  she  had  better  be  light- 
handed  with  her  spice ;  many  stomachs  are  deranged 
for  days  by  an  over-dose  of  pepper  and  cayenne. 

She  should  remember  that  even  with  high-seasoned 
dishes  there  ought  to  be  a  sliding-scale  of  strength, 
adapting  the  degree  to  different  palates.  Some  persons 
like  curry  and  mulligatawny  more  moderately  flavoured 
than  others,  and  find  that  it  agrees  with  them  better. 
She  should  also  carefully  mark  the  difference  between 
a  merely  piquant  dish  and  a  curry,  and  between  a  curry 
and  a  devil.  Some  things  even,  as  certain  smoked  and 
salted  fish,  require  to  be  dqmvedy  by  steeping,  of  a 
portion  of  their  seasoning,  to  make  them  palatable  and 


AND  ITS  BEIATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  5 

wholesome  food.  The  cook  thus  enlarges  her  employer's 
bill  of  fare  by  enabling  him  to  partake  of  dishes  he  must 
otherwise  renomioe  through  fear  of  indigestion  or  tor- 
menting thirst 

To  many  who  cannot  bear  their  habitual  use,  high- 
seasoned  dishes,  oecasianally  and  moderately  enjoyed, 
render  service.  Numbers  who  could  not  take  curry 
eveiy  day  find  themselyes  the  better  for  a  taste  of  it 
once  a  week  or  once  a  fortnight.  Every  one  must  judge 
of  such  points  according  to  his  own  proper  feelings. 
ISest  day,  or  the  day  after,  he  will  know  to  a  cer- 
tainty whether  such  and  such  things  have  agreed  with 
him. 

The  cook's  range  of  seasoning  is  considerable.  By 
it  is  meant  any  solid  substances  or  liquids  which, 
mingled  with  articles  of  food,  either  increase  their  savour 
or  modify  and  change  their  qualities. 

The  effect  of  seasonings,  taken  in  reasonable  quan- 
tity, is  to  increase  the  digestibility  of  food.  Tliey  effect 
that  object  either  by  simply  stimulating  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the  stomach,  exciting  its  capillary  cir- 
culation and  the  secretion  of  its  acid  and  mucous  fluids ; 
or  by  giving  a  fillip  to  all  the  bodily  functions,  in  such 
a  way  that  its  effects,  general  in  themselves,  become  in 
their  turn  a  cause  of  activity  in  the  functions  of  the 
stomach. 

The  privation  of  seasonings  has  for  its  effect  the 
prolonged  retention  in  the  stomach  of  many  relaxing 
and  emollient  substances  which  have  little  power  to 
solicit  the  action  of  that  organ.     By  seasoning  certain 


6  COKSIDEBATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

aliments  within  dne  limits,  we  do  no  more  than  copy 
Natmre,  who  renders  fruit  wholesome  and  agreeable  by 
associating  mucilage  with  acids,  by  combining  certain 
forms  of  starch  with  sugar,  as  well  as  by  the  instinctive 
taste  with  which  she  inspires  men  and  animals  both  for 
salt,  in  saline  springs  and  shell-fish,  and  for  ilie  perfume 

Seasonings  suit  lymphatic  temperaments,  aged  per- 
sons, men  devoted  to  professions  requiring  great  bodily 
or  mental  exertion ;  they  are  not  suited  to  sanguine  or 
bilious  subjects,  to  children,  and  still  less  to  infants,  and 
scarcely  to  persons  in  the  prime  of  life.  They  should  be 
abstained  from  by  nursing  mothers,  because  the  exciting 
effects  of  these  substances  may  be  transmitted  to  the 
deUcate  organs  of  their  babes. 

The  immoderate  use  of  seasonings  has  for  its  result 
'-first,  Uie  productibn  of  an  artificial  appetite,  the  temp- 
tation to  load  the  stomach  with  more  food  than  it  can 
properly  digest,  and,  consequently,  by  overtaxing  that 
organ's  powers  (even  when  they  do  not  directly  cause 
it  by  their  stimulant  action  on  its  membrane),  either 
acute  or  chronic  irritation ;  secondly,  it  is  sui*e  to  bring 
on  in  the  end  languor  and  debility  in  all  the  functions, 
premature  decay  of  all  the  organs. 

The  above  remarks,  however,  are  not  intended  to 
apply  to  certain  substances  which  custom  includes  in 
the  list  of  seasonings,  but  which,  although  they  may 
alter  the  flavour  of  food,  do  not  increase  its  digestibility. 
They  even  retain,  when  used,  so  long  as  they  are  un- 
altered in  themselves,  the  relaxing  qualities  which  are 


AND  ITS  RELATIOKS  TO  HEALTH.  7 

natnrallj  proper  to  them.  Instances  to  the  point  are 
afforded  by  batter,  cream,  oO,  &c. 

Sugar  not  only  seasons  tasteless  things,  but  also  affords 
nutriment.  Combined  with  insipid  articles  of  food  in 
moderate  doses,  it  slightly  stimulates  the  stomach  and 
hastens  digestion.  Taken  alone  and  in  larger  quantities, 
it  produces  an  impression  of  warmth  at  the  back  of  the 
throat  and  in  the  stomach.  It  leaves  little  residue  in 
the  intestines,  and  supplies  the  chyle  with  a  consider- 
able proportion  of  fibrine.  Dogs  fed  with  sugar  only 
have  lived  from  tliirty  to  forty  days.  Sugar  is  almost 
always  associated  in  nature  with  principles  which 
neutralise  its  slightly  heating  and  astringent  properties ; 
so  that  the  aliments  in  which  sugar  is  naturally  met 
with — vegetables,  mucilaginous  substances,  and  fruits 
— ^are  precisely  those  which  we  have  recourse  to  as 
mild,  refreshing,  and  even  slightly  laxative. 

Sugar  renders  more  digestible  watery  and  insipid 
vegetables,  such  as  green  peas,  spinach,  cooked  endive, 
^,  and  the  starchy  matters  which  enter  broths  and 
gruels.  It  tempers  the  acidity  of  certain  fruits,  and, 
when  employed  in  sudi  small  quantities  as  to  be  unsus- 
pected, it  softens  as  well  as  heightens  the  flavour  of 
many  savoury  satices  and  roffodts.  So  employed,  it  forms 
a  connecting  and  harmonising  link  between  the  sharpness 
of  salt  and  the  pungency  of  spice.  Sugar  is  suitable  to  every 
temperament,  to  every  climate,  sex,  and  age.  It  is  almost 
the  only  seasoning  allowable  to  persons  whose  system  is 
suffering  from  irritation,  such  as  convalescents  recovering 
from  inflammation  of  the  stomach,  bowels,  lungs,  &c 


8  CONSIDKRATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

Honey  is  ihe  natural  sugar  collected  by  bees  from 
flowers  and  the  leaves  of  certain  plants.  As  a  general 
rule,  it  is  both  less  digestive  and  less  digestible  than 
sugar — ^in  many  cases  even  causing  flatulence  and 
diarrhoea.  It  varies  greatly,  according  to  the  localiiy  of 
its  production,  in  colour,  and  in  the  aromatic  principles 
contained  in  it.  There  are  even  flowers,  as  the  kalmia, 
which  are  reputed  to  yield  poisonous  honey.  It  cannot 
in  any  way  serve  as  a  substitute  for  sugar ;  but  may  be 
used  with  caution  in  sundry  ways,  as  a  varieiy  and 
supplementary  addition  to  it  On  Swiss  tables,  the 
honey-pot  is  a  standing  dish ;  but,  after  a  few  trials,  the 
majority  of  strangers  leave  it  in  the  class  of  "  Touch- 
me-nots." 

Oily  though  not  a  seasoning  proper,  can  hardly  be 
allowed  to  pass  without  notice.  Tlie  best  eating  oil  is 
that  obtained  from  olives ;  its  consumption  is  enormous 
throughout  the  countries  where  the  olive-tree  grows. 
The  best  olive-oil  finds  its  way  to  England.  It  should 
be  clear,  greenish,  with  but  little  smell;  such  oil  is 
pleasant  on  the  palate,  and  light  on  the  stomacL  Its 
addition  increases  the  nutritive  qualities  of  fish,  salad, 
cucumber,  vegetable  soups,  cold  boiled  vegetables,  &c. 
So  mixed  up,  it  communicates  to  food  nothing  more 
than  a  soft,  pleasant  flavour,  and  emollient  properties. 
In  1u>t  countries,  it  replaces  butter  out  of  sheer  necessity. 
The  prejudice  against  good  eating  oil,  entertained  by 
many  individuals,  is  therefore  unfounded,  and  is  oft;en 
the  mere  result  of  not  having  made  a  trial  of  it  Taken 
alonej  and  in  a  certain  quantity,  it  is  purgative— probably 


AKD  ITS  BBLA.TIONS  TO  HEAXTH.  9 

because  it  Is  incompetent  to  excite  the  assimilating 
powers  of  the  alimentary  canal. 

Inferior  olive-oil — ^strong-smelling^  thick,  or  rancid 
•—leaves  an  after-taste,  and  is  less  digestible.  But  it  is 
self-evident  that,  with  eatables  at  least,  the  very  best  of 
every  thing  is  the  best. 

Very  light  and  pleasant-eating  oil  is  extracted  from 
the  seeds  of  the  white  poppy.  It  may  be  used  freely 
without  apprehension,  as  the  narcotic  principle  of  the 
capsule  does  not  extend  to  the  seed ;  and  is  preferable 
,to  walnut-oil,  which  is  apt  to  have  a  bitter  or  acrid 
twang.  When  oil  is  raised  to  a  certain  temperature  (as 
likewise  is  the  case  with  butter,  and  other  modifications 
of  fat),  it  loses  its  softening  qualities,  and  is  converted 
into  a  stimulant  instead.  (See  sectipn  Frying^  chapter 
Opekations.) 

Fat  or  Grease  is  animal  oil  in  a  solid  state,  obtained 
from  quadrupeds  or  birds.  It  enters  into  the  composi- 
tion of  many  dishes,  either  as  one  of  their  first  con- 
stituents, or  as  a  final  addition  in  the  way  of  sauce  or 
seasoning.  Fat  is  either  deposited  all  by  itself  in  the 
cellular  tissue, — as  the  suet  in  sheep  and  oxen,  and  the 
fat  in  hogs, — or  else  it  is  mixed  up  and  interposed 
amongst  the  muscular  and  fleshy  parts  of  the  meat.  In 
the  first  case,  it  is  difficult  to  digest,  not  stimulating 
the  stomach  sufficiently;  in  the  latter,  it  renders  the 
meat  tenderer  and  lighter  on  the  stomach. 

Fat,  considered  as  a  seasoning,  possesses  the  same 
qualities  as  oil,  and,  like  it,  when  heated  to  a  certain 
temperature,  acquires  stimulant  and  irritating  properties. 


10  CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHmO  FOOD, 

But  it  is  as  a  source  of  animal  heat  that  oil,  fat,  and  like- 
wise butter,  derive  their  greatest  importance  as  aliments. 

The  warmth  of  our  bodies  is  maintained  by  a  pro- 
cess which  is  no  other  than  a  true  combustion.  We  bum 
fuel  to  heat  ourselves  quite  as  much  as  a  room  is  heated 
by  burning  coals  in  a  grate.  The  only  difference  is,  that 
oar  temperature  is  better  regulated. 

The  two  grand  combustibles  found  in  nature  are 
carbon  and  hydrogen.  But  carbon  and  hydrogen  inva- 
riably enter  into  the  composition  of  eveiy  animal  and 
vegetable  substance, — ^into  wood,  coal,  oil,  fat,  spirit  of 
wine — ^whatever  is  known  as  a  cotnbusttblej — and  into 
our  food. 

Heat  is  the  result  of  the  union  of  oxygen  with  other 
bodies.  When  the  oxygen  taken  up  by  the  blood  in  the 
lungs  arrives  with  it  at  the  organs  to  which  the  circula- 
tion carries  it — ^what  does  it  find  there  ?  Hydrogen  and 
carbon.     It  imites  with  them,  and  we  are  warmed. 

Li  a  fire-place  wliich  gives  out  its  genial  heat,  the 
oxygen  of  the  air  unites  with  the  hydrogen  and  carbon  of 
the  wood  or  the  coal.  In  the  human  frame  the  same 
oxygen  combines  with  the  carbon  and  hydrogen  disguised 
in  the  forms  of  bread,  soup,  meat,  cakes,  preserves,  and 
all  the  good  things  made  of  mgar^  grease^  and  Jlour. 
There  is  hydrogen  and  carbon  in  every  thing  we  eat 
and  drink ;  but  those  three  bodies,  together  with  toiney 
contain  the  most,  apd  are  consequently  the  best  com- 
bustibles. 

Wine,  porter,  beer,  ale,  all  fermented  liquors,  are 
combustibles ;  only,  in  them,  the  portion  which  bums  is 


AND  ITS  RBLATIOKS  TO  HEALTH.  11 

mised  with  a  considerable  quantity  of  water.  Bat,  bj 
extracting  a  portion  of  the  water,  jou  get  brandy,  which 
Ketches  fire  easily ;  by  extracting  more  water,  you  have 
spirit  of  wine,  which  bums  still  better.  Whoever  has 
fieen  a  tea-urn  kept  boiUng  by  a  spirit-lamp  can  form 
«ome  idea  of  the  effects  of  spirit  of  wine  in  living  bodies, 
«ven  when  much  diluted  with  water. 

The  miracle  is,  that  the  human  frame  should  main- 
tain  itself  constantly  at  the  same  temperature,  winter  and 
summer,  night  and  day,  in  the  rain  and  in  sunshine,  at 
ihe  equator  and  under  the  arctic  circle.  It  is  neither 
ihotter  nor  colder  at  one  time  than  at  another,  whether 
supplied  with  an  excess  of  combustible,  or  deprived  of 
fiiel  for  days  together — ^as  is  proved  by  the  thermometer. 
The  heat  of  the  human  body,  in  middle-aged  persons, 
may  be  stated  at  99''  of  Fahrenheit^  In  very  old  persons, 
it  will  be  a  degree  or  so  lower — in  children  and  youths, 
^  degree  or  so  higher;  and  that  is  the  whole  of  its 
variation. 

When  we  know  that  combustion  takes  place  within 
us,  we  understand  at  once  haw  we  are  warmed.  It  is 
dear,  also,  that  a  better  fire  must  be  kept  up  in  winter 
than  in  summer ;  and  Nature  has  provided  for  the  want 
by  giving  us  a  better  appetite  in  cold  weather  than  in 
hot  In  our  climate  the  difference  is  less  strildng, 
because  we  stick  to  our  accustomed  habits,  and  claim  the 
same  daily  ration,  whether  we  require  it  or  not  To 
appreciate  the  relation  which  exists  between  the  internal 
craving  for  food — that  is,  for  combustible — and  the 
external  temperature,  we  ought  to  compare  the  diet  of  the 


12  CONSIDKRATIOKS  TOUCHING  FOOb, 

Hindoo,  who  lives  on  a  handful  of  rice  per  day,  with 
ihat  of  the  Esquimaux,  who,  to  maintain  his  99**  of 
warmth  in  a  climate  which  freezes  mercury,  will  occa- 
sionally swallow  at  a  sitting  his  ten  or  fifteen  quarts 
of  whale-oil.  It  is  less  agreeable  than  cod-liver  oil, 
but  produces  exactly  the  same  efiectsl 

For  a  like  reason,  the  Spaniard  drinks  water,  and  is 
satisfied ;  whilst  the  wines  of  Bordeaux  are  brandied,  to 
make  them  acceptable  to  the  Englishman.  For  the 
same  reason,  too,  the  Russians  swallow,  without  wry 
faces,  bumpers  of  brandy  that  would  kill  an  inhabitant 
of  the  South  of  France.  In  Sweden,  the  government  is 
obliged  to  prohibit  the  peasantry  from  distilling  the  com 
required  to  supply  the  baker ;  the  Arabs  have  accepted, 
without  raising  difficulties,  the  precept  which  forbids 
tlieir  using  spirituous  liquors.  It  is  easy  for  the  Arabs, 
who  live  in  a  hot  country,  to  do  without  brandy ;  it  is 
less  easy  for  the  Swedes,  who  live  in  a  cold  one.  The 
bearing  of  these  facts  on  regimen  and  the  state  of  health 
is  direct  and  obvious. 

Tlie  &t  of  living  animals  is  a  stock  of  combustible, 
stored  away  by  the  blood  against  a  rainy  day.  Fat 
is  the  circulation's  savings-bank.  There  it  puts  aside 
its  little  superfluities,  knowing  well  where  to  find  them 
in  case  of  need.  Witness  the  fat  pig  mentioned  by 
Liebig,  which,  covered  by  a  heap  of  fallen  ruins,  was 
found  alive  and  well  one  hundred  and  sixty  days  after- 
wards. As  a  matter  of  course,  he  was  fat  no  longer ; 
but  even  had  the  length  of  the  fast  been  less,  it  is  a 
notable  instance  of  the  resources  which,  in  default  of 


AND  ITS  BELATI0N8  TO  HEALTH.  13 

food,  the  blood  is  able  to  find  in  the  fat^  For  the  pig 
had  most  certainlj  continued  to  breathe  from  the  first 
to  the  last  of  those  hundred  and  sixty  days.  His  fire 
of  hydrogen  and  carbon  had  never  gone  out  for  a 
minute,  and  a  lucky  thing  it  was  for  the  pig  that  he  had 
put  something  by  in  his  time  of  plenty.  The  principal 
sufferer  was  the  owner  of  the  pig,  if  he  reckoned  on 
the  luxury  of  rasher  and  ham.  On  this  occasion  piggy 
literaUy  ate  his  own  bacon. 

But  aU  that  we  eat  is  not  burnt  to  keep  us  warm  ; 
else,  what  would  the  blood  have  to  sustain  our  finme 
with,  and  to  repair  the  continual  wear  and  tear  of  our 
organs?  Our  food,  therefore,  may  be  divided  into  tufo 
distinct  kinds :  one  kind  intended  to  be  burnt  within  us, 
which  may  be  called  aliments  of  combustion  ;  the  other 
destined  to  nourish  the  body,  which  may  be  called  aug- 
ments of  nutrition.  The  flour  of  wheat,  of  which  bread 
is  made,  contains  both  those  aliments.* 

Take  a  pinch  of  flour,  and  pour  a  little  water  on  it, 
rubbing  it  gently  between  your  fingers.  The  water  will 
torn  whiie,  and  cany  away  with  it  a  white  powder, 
which  you  can  easily  collect  by  letting  the  water  settle 
in  a  vesseL  This  powder  is  starch — the  substance  to 
stiffen  linen  and  lace,  and  which  our  forefathers  wore 
as  hair-powder  on  their  periwigs.  Now,  starch  is  an 
excellent  combustible,  being  nearly  half  made  up  of 

*  For  these  and  a  few  other  interesting  details,  the  writer  is  in- 
debted to  the  HUtoirt  iTkhc  BouchSe  de  Pain  (JThe  Hutory  of  a  Mouth' 
fil  of  Bread),  by  Jean  Mace — an  admirable  work,  which  ought  to 
be  translated  into  English,  not  only  for  the  benefit  of  the  rising 
generation,  but  for  the  instruction  of  their  parents  and  teachers. 


>    * 


14  CONSIDERATIOKS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

carbon.  One  hundred  grains  of  starch  contain,  in  round 
numbers,  forty-five  grains  of  carbon,  six  of  hydrogen,, 
and  forty-nine  of  oxygen.  Starch  may  ahnost  be  styled 
the  parent  of  a  large  proportion  of  our  alimentary  com-- 
bustibles ;  for  if,  by  an  operation  which  Nature  performs- 
perfectly,  without  assistance,  in  certain  cases,  it  lose» 
a  part  of  its  carbon  (leaving  not  more  than  thirty-six 
grains  of  carbon  in  every  hundred  grains  of  starch),  it 
becomes — ^guess  what — ^neither  more  nor  less  than  tugcar^ 

And  now  leave  Nature  to  cany  out  her  work  on 
this  same  sugar,  under  certain  conditions,  and  another 
transformation  will  follow.  About  a  third  of  its  carbon 
will  spontaneously  combine  with  two-thirds  of  its  oxygen, 
forming  thereby  carbonic  acid,  which  will  fly  away  as  a* 
gas — as  the  bubbles  which  foam  in  your  glass  of  cider* 
The  rest  is — what?  Alcohol, — the  other  combustible 
we  lately  mentioned, — ^which  bums  even  better  than 
sugar  and  starch — seeing  that  a  hundred  grains  of 
alcohol  consist  of  fifty-three  grains  of  carbon,  thirteen 
of  hydrogen,  and  thirty-four  of  oxygen. 

When  all  the  starch  is  extracted  from  flour,  there* 
remains  a  whitish,  elastic,  gluey  substance  (glue  can 
be  made  of  it;  it  is  what  renders  common  paste  so 
adhesive),  called  gluteru  Gluten  dried  becomes  brittle- 
and  semi-transparent.  One  hundred  grains  of  gluten 
contain  siatj/'-three  grains  of  carbon^  seven  of  hydrogeUf 
thirteen,  of  oxygen^  and  seventeen  of  azote.  Please  note 
the  respective  number  of  grains,  and  also  the  novel 
element  (azote)  introduced. 

Here  you  are  requested  to  give  a  moment's  attention 


AND  ITS  BELATI0K3  TO  HEALTH.  15 

to  a  well-known  fact  When  a  man  is  bled,  the  blood 
drawn  firom  him  soon  separates  of  itself  into  two  parts 
— a  yellowish  transparent  liquid,  and  a  dark  red  mass 
floating  in  it.  The  clotted  floating  mass  owes  its  colour 
to  an  inflnite  number  of  little  red  bodies  (called  the 
corpttsetUeSy  and  which  can  be  seen  with  the  microscope), 
which  are  held,  as  it  were,  in  a  net,  by  the  meshes  of  a 
peculiar  substance,  which — ^pray  remark  this  carefully 
— 18  whiiishy  elastic^  gluey.  Dried^  it  becomes  brittle  cmd 
8emi'4ran9parent.  One  hundred  graina  of  ihie  substance 
contain  sixty^three  grains  cf  carbon^  seven  of  hydrogen, 
thirteen  of  oxygen^  and  seventeen  of  azote.  It  is  called 
fUnine,  and  is  destined  to  form  the  fibres  of  the  muscles 
which  are  contained,  already  half-made,  in  the  blood. 

If,  as  we  have  just  seen,  the  constituent  elements 
of  fibrine  and  glaten  are  the  same,  the  reason  is, 
that,  in  reality,  the  two  substances  are  only  one.  The^ 
most  learned  man  would  be  very  hard  pressed  if  they 
were  shown  to  him,  dry,  side  by  side,  to  decide  which 
sample  was  obtained  from  flour,  and  which  from  blood. 
Not  only,  therefore,  are  our  musdes  contained,  already 
half-formed,  in  our  blood,  but,  better  still,  their  fibres^ 
exist,  ready  to  be  made  use  of,  in  the  bread  we  eat 

We  have  here,  then,  a  primary  aliment  of  nutrition. 
There  is  no  need  to  be  over-anxious  about  the  bodily 
health  of  the  man  who  has  plenty  of  good  bread  to  eat 
He  has  sufficient  starch  to  keep  himself  warm,  and  suffix 
dent  gluten  to  sustain  his  strength.  It  is  only  his- 
palate  that  will  be  inclined  to  grumble. 

Another  curious  coincidence.    When  milk  is  curdled,. 


16  CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

there  takes  place  in  it  exactly  the  same  separation  as 
in  blood.  Li  a  yellowish  transparent  liquid,  the  whey, 
floats  the  white  coagulated  curd  which  is  made  into 
cheese,  and  a  considerable  portion  of  which  would  have 
made  butter,  had  the  milk  been  churned  instead  of 
curdled.  By  carefully  removing  the  butter  from  the 
curd,  a  sort  of  white  powder  is  obtained,  which  is  the 
essential  principle  of  cheese,  and  which  is  called  caseinej 
from  the  Latin  ea^eus^  ^^  cheese."  And  Us  constituents 
are  the  same  as  those  offbrine  and  gluten  !  One  hundred 
parts  of  caseine  are  made  up  of  sixty-three  parts  of  carbon^ 
seven  of  hydrogen^  thirteen  of  oxygen^  and  seventeen  of  azote. 

It  now  needs  no  conjurer  to  explain  why  bread  and 
cheese  furnish  a  substantial  meal.  The  persons  on  whom 
falls  the  task  of  detecting  and  preventing  adulteration, 
will  perceive  the  importance  of  their  duties,  when  they 
find  that  skimmed  milk  is  deficient  in  heat-giving, 
watered  milk  in  nutritive,  quality.  Buttermilk  and 
whey,  however  light  and  refreshing,  are  very  poor  be- 
verages indeed. 

But  caseine  is  not  found  in  milk  alone.  It  exists 
in  great  abundance  in  peas,  beans,  lentils,  and  haricots, 
which  are  full  of  cheese,  however  strange  you  may 
think  it.  Little  cheeses  are  sold  in  the  streets  of  Canton, 
which  it  is  impossible  to  distinguish  from  our  own,  as 
far  as  their  material  is  concerned :  only,  in  making  them, 
the  Chinese  do  not  use  a  drop  of  milk.  They  reduce 
peas  to  a  clear  broth;  then  they  curdle  the  brotli,  as 
we  do  milk,  and  by  the  same  means:  they  press  the 
curd,  salt  it,  put  it  into  moulds,  exactly  as  we  should, 


AKB  ITS  RELATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  17 

and  so  produce  a  cheese — a  real  cheese,  composed  of 
veritable  caseiiie.  Give  it  to  a  chemist,  and  ask  what 
a  hundred  grains  of  it  contain ;  and  he  will  hand  to  you 
the  formula  which  has  been  already  thrice  repeated. 

We  have  discovered  two  grand  aliments  of  nutrition 
— gluten  and  caseine:  a  third  remains  to  be  inquired 
after. 

We  know  that  a  chicken — skin,  muscles,  eyes,  and 
every  thing — is  entirely  formed  from  the  contents  of  tb& 
egg,  during  the  marvellous  process  of  hatching.  It  is 
clear  that  the  elements  of  all  its  organs  must  hav9 
been  contained  beforehand  in  the  liquids  of  the  egg. 
Nobody  introduced  them  while  the  hen  was  sitting; 
and  if  Nature,  with  those  liquids,  can  make  the  skin 
and  muscles  of  a  fowl,  it  is  probable  she  will  have 
no  more  difficulty,  if  we  swallow  the  contents  of  an 
egg,  in  converting  them  into  skin  and  muscle /or  us. 

An  egg,  therefore,  contains  an  incontestably  nutri- 
tious aliment  called  dihumvney  from  the  Latin  albumen — 
white  of  egg.  It  is  recognised  by  one  particularly 
striking  quality.  Exposed  to  a  temperature  varying 
from  140**  to  167**  Falu*.  (according  to  the  quantity 
of  water  mixed  with  it),  albumine  hardens,  and,  from 
a  colourless,  transparent  liquid,  becomes  the  white, 
opaque,  elastic  substance  known  to  every  one  who  has 
eaten  hard-boiled  eggs.  This  is  a  property  which  should 
never  be  forgotten  by  cooks — for  it  gives  them  the  power 
of  retaining,  in  the  article  they  are  dressing  (by  plung- 
ing it  in  boiling  liquid),  all  the  nutritive  albumine 
held  by  its  tissues.     From  articles  put  to  cook  in  cold 

0 


18  CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

water,  part  of  the  albamine  oozes  out  during  ihe  process. 
If  soup  is  to  be  made  with  the  boilings — ^well  and 
good ;  if  not,  it  is  a  needless  diminution  of  the  nutritive 
quality  of  the  article  cooked.  One  hundred  parts  of 
aJbumine  contain  sixty-three  parts  of  carbon ;  there  is  no 
need  to  repeat  the  rest — ^the  reader  already  knows  the 
combination  by  heart 

A  step  fiirther  in  advance:  The  yellowish  liquid 
in  which  floats  the  clot  of  coagulated  blood  is  called  the 
serumy  which  is  Latin  for  whey.  If  you  set  this  serum 
on  the  fire,  in  little  longer  time  tlian  it  takes  to  boil  an 
egg  hard,  it  becomes  full  of  a  white  opaque  substance, 
which  is  no  other  than  the  albumine  we  have  just  been 
mentioning.  Our  blood,  therefore,  contains  white  of 
egg — and  that  in  even  greater  quantity  than  fibrine. 

But  fibrine,  caseine,  albumine— as  our  famous  formula 
reveals  to  us — are  at  bottom  one  and  the  same  thing, 
the  same  body  under  different  aspects.  Eggs  are  not 
the  only  things  which  furnish  albumine.  Exactly  as  we 
have  found  in  vegetables  the  fibrine  of  muscle  and  the 
caseine  of  milk,  we  shall  also,  without  having  far  to 
look,  find  in  them  the  albumine  of  the  egg.  It  exists  in 
grass,  in  salad,  in  all  the  tencfer  parts  of  plants.  The 
juice  of  vegetables,  especially,  contains  notable  quantities 
of  albumine. 

A  word  about  the  new  element,  azote,  or  nitrogen, 
which  enters  into  these  last  three  identical  formulas,  or 
receipts  to  make  gluten,  caseine,  and  albumine:  although 
it  is  not  V3e  who  can  make  them.  It  is  easier  to  pick 
things  to  pieces  than  to  put  them  properly  together  again. 


AND  ITS  BELATIOKS  TO  HEALTH.  19 

AinoD£:st  the  substances  most  familiar  to  us  are  Air 
and  Water.  Water,  I  beg  to  remind  the  reader,  is  a 
<Jiemicctl  eombination  of  oxygen  and  hydrogen.  The  two 
gases  are  united,  incorporated  into  each  other's  substance, 
in  a  manner  of  which  we  can  form  no  conception*  Air 
is  a  mere  niixtyre  of  oxygen  and  azote ;  there  is  no  more 
combination  than  between  coffee  and  chicory,  or  brick- 
dost  and  snuff,  in  the  drawers  of  fraudulent  shopkeepers. 
What  azote  does  in  the  air,  would  be  hard  to  say.  It 
seems  a  mere  sleeping  partner  in  the  concern,  oxygen 
transacting  all  the  active  business.  In  respiration,  for 
instance,  azote  enters  our  lungs  side  by  side  with  his 
inseparable  companion ;  but  as  he  came  in,  so  he  goes 
out  again,  without  leaving  a  trace  of  his  presence. 
Nevertheless — as  also  happens  in  human  society — this 
insignificant  individual  takes  up  the  most  room.  He 
occupies  four-fifths  of  the  atmosphere,  where  he  seems 
to  render  little  other  service  than  to  curb  the  fiery 
temper  of  oxygen,  who  would  set  fire  to  every  thing, 
if  he  had  it  all  his  own  way.  Azote  has  been  compared 
to  the  water  in  grog,  which  would  bum  holes  in  our 
stomachs  if  we  took  the  spirit  pure. 

Nevertheless,  we  must  not  suppose  that  this  pacific 
diluter  of  oxygen  is  strengthless.  Like  cold  people,  who 
become  terrible  when  once  excited,  azote  is  capable  of 
violent  action  when  really  imited  to  another  body. 
Azote,  combined  (not  mixed)  with  oxygen,  forms  aqua 
fortu — "  strong  water" — nitric  acid,  which  bites  copper, 
and  devours  whatever  it  touches.  Combined  with  hydro- 
gen, azote  becomes  ammonia,  volatile  alkali,  popularly 


20         CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

known  as  smelling-salts,  hartshorn — ono  of  the  most 
energetic  substances  existing.  Azote  with  carbon  makes 
a  strange  combination — a  child  who  behaves  as  if  he  had 
neither  father  nor  mother — ^which,  again  combined  with 
hydrogen,  is  nothing  less  than  prussic  acid,  a  drop  of 
which  on  your  tongue  would  strike  you  dead. 

Azote,  therefore,  is  not  altogether  so  mild  as,  at  first 
sight,  you  take  it  to  be.  There  is  no  trusting  to  it,  or 
knowing  what  it  may  do.  Nevertheless,  it  has  been 
already  shown  that  all  its  combinations  are  not  equally 
dangerous.  Tlio  very  same  elements  which,  two  by 
two,  or  three  together,  destroy  every  thing, — those  same 
elements  form,  in  a  combination  of  four,  the  invaluable 
aliment  of  nutrition  of  which  our  bodies  are  composed. 
Indeed,  its  real  name  is  azotised  aliment^  nitrogenous  food; 
because  it  is  the  presence  of  azote  or  nitrogen  which 
especially  determines  its  formation :  so  much  so,  that  it 
has  been  customary  to  estimate  tlie  nutritive  value  of 
food  according  to  the  quantity  of  azote  it  contains. 

Azote,  in  fact,  appears  to  be  a  substance  appropriated 
to  the  special  use  of  every  creature  endowed  with  life. 
Its  three  companions  in  our  formula  (carbon,  hydrogen, 
and  oxygen)  wander,  in  troops  and  torrents,  through  the 
whole  extent  of  terrestrial  creation ;  but  azote,  with  the 
exception  of  its  atmospheric  domain  (where  it  reigns 
in  a  state  of  majestic  repose),  is  rarely  met  with,  except 
in  the  bodies  of  animals,  or  in  the  parts  of  plants  destined 
to  be  fed  on  by  animals. 

Moreover,  azote  has  to  be  wire-drawn  through  many 
an  aperture  and  chink  before  reaching  the  post  of  honour 


AND  ITS  BKLATIONS  TO  HKALTH.  21 

assigned  to  it  in  the  Animal  Kingdom.  The  animal 
itself  can  do  nothing  with  it,  unless  it  has  first  been 
absorbed  and  prepared  by  the  vegetable ;  and  the  vege- 
table can  derive  no  benefit  from  it  so  long  as  it  remains 
isolated  in  its  atmospheric  retreat  It  is  only  when 
entrapped  into  one  of  the  above-named  liaisons  (the 
second  especially,  which  produces  ammonia)  that  it  con- 
sents to  join  the  Dance  of  Life,  instead  of  rioting  in  the 
Dance  of  Death.  Then,  in  the  mysterious  depths  of 
vegetation,  is  organised  the  marvellous  Quadrille  of 
Nutritious  Aliments,  whose  proportions  should  be  bla- 
zoned in  letters  of  gold :  Carbon,  sixty-three ;  Hydrogen, 
seven;  Oxygen,  thirteen;  Azote,  seventeen — all  odd, 
and  three  indivisible  numbers — make  one  hundred  of 
what  may  be  truly  called  the  solid  staff  and  elixir  of  life. 
Well,  therefore,  does  Jean  Mac6  conclude  that  the 
Vegetable  Kingdom  is  nothing  else  than  the  vast  kitchen 
in  which  are  cooked  the  dinners  of  the  Animal  Kingdom. 
When  we  cat  the  ox,  it  is  the  grass  which  lie  has  eaten 
ihat  actually  nourishes  us.  For  us,  he  is  a  mere  inter- 
mediary or  go-between,  who  transfers  to  us  intact  tlie 
albumine  extracted  by  his  stomach  from  the  herbage 
supplied  by  his  pasture-grounds.  He  is  the  waiter  of 
Nature's  eating-house ;  the  dishes  he  brings  have  been 
put  into  bis  hand  already  prepared.  Only,  to  appreciate 
his  services  properly,  we  must  remember  that  very  small 
indeed  are  the  nutritious  portions  fiimished  by  grass, 
and  that  it  would  be  a  weary  task  for  our  digestion  to 
have  to  elaborate  them  one  by  one.  We  might  bo 
starved  to  death  with  a  full  stomach,  as  happened  to 


22         CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

some  unfortunate  Australian  explorers,  who  found  plenty 
of  nardoo  to  eat,  but  nothing  else.  The  ox  presents 
us  with  those  little  portions  concentrated  }n  a  plateful  of 
niUriiive  aliment;  and  our  stomachs,  and  consequently 
our  health,  are  the  gainers  by  his  complaisance. 

The  distinction,  which  has  been  thus  fully  explained, 
between  aliments  of  combustion  and  aliments  ofnutritUmj 
should  never  be  forgotten  by  the  home-physician,  the 
nurse,  the  doctor,  and  the  housekeeper.  It  should 
guide  every  individual's  bill  of  fare.  For  what  can  b© 
clearer  than  that  growing  children  and'  adolescents  have 
greater  need  of  additional  material  to  build  up  their 
frame,  than  the  adult  or  the  aged,  to  whom  the  same 
supply  of  growth-making  material  is  not  only  super- 
fluous, but  positively  adverse  ?  that  amongst  adults,  the 
hard-working  labourer,  the  sportsman,  the  traveller, 
have  greater  need  of  repairs  than  the  gentleman  who 
leisurely  sits  at  home  at  ease?  that  even  sedentary 
persons  make  different  expenditures  of  exertion,  wliid) 
require  to  be  replaced  accordingly  ?  Tlie  statesman  who 
conducts  a  policy,  the  author  who  writes  a  book,  the 
business-man  who  manages  a  concern,  draw  more  freely 
on  their  strength  and  nervous  energy  than  the  lounger 
who  skims  the  daily  papers,  the  reader  who  whiles  away 
an  hour  with  a  novel,  or  the  customer  who  purchases 
an  article  at  a  shop. 

The  distinction  is  likewise  of  great  importance  both 
to  persons  who  are  Too  Fat,  and  to  those  who  are  Too 
Lean*  The  former  have  had  their  afSictions  attended  to 
by  medical  writei*s,  both  in  England  and  France.     The 


AND  ITS  BEIATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  23 

latter,  if  enjoying  tolerable  health  in  Bpite  of  their  lean- 
ness, will  be  wise  to  let  well  alone,  consoling  themselves 
with  the  sporting  proverb,  "  A  lean  dog  for  a  long 
heat.*'  If  they  feel  unwell  and  weak,  let  them  consult 
some  respectable,  properly  educated  physician,  and  beware 
of  the  arts  of  unscrupulous  advertising  practitioners. 

For  some  time  past  it  has  been  a  well-known  &ct 
that  dry  bread  and  pure  spring  water  constitute  a 
diet  whose  fattening  effects  had  either  been  ignored  or 
remsuned  unknown.  To  grow  fat,  you  are  advised  to 
drink  largely  of  water  and  fermented  beverages,  and 
to  eat  abundance  of  farinaceous  and  starchy  food.  To 
grow  thin,  drink  very  little,  confining  that  little  to 
unwatered  wine,  coffee,  and  tea,  and  abstain  from  all 
aliments  containing  starch. 

The  action  of  water  and  of  starchy  matters  on  the 
human  economy  is  very  striking.  Almost  all  the  na- 
tives of  Central  America  have  the  abdomen  extremely 
developed,  and  are  generally  fat  Their  drink  is  water, 
and  they  eat  little  besides  bananas,  sweet  batatas,  and 
fish.  In  our  own  climate,  we  can  hardly  avoid  observ- 
ing that  persons  who  eat  a  large  quantity  of  bread,  and 
take  but  little  bodily  exercise,  are  generally  plethoric 
Their  skin  is  soft  and  dull ;  their  flesh  is  puffy  instead 
of  being  muscular.  In  short,  it  is  a  great  mistake  to 
confound  aliments  which  fatten  with  those  which  afford 
nutriment  and  sustain  strength. 

The  food  taken  into  the  system,  and  which  is  stored 
there  in  the  shape  of  fat,  is  uselessly  swallowed,  so  far 
as  the  generation  oimuactdar  strength  is  concerned.     If 


24  CONSn>ERATIOHS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

two  men  In  good  health  eat  equal  quantities  of  tlie 
same  alimentary  substances,  and  one  of  them  grows  fat, 
while  the  other  does  not,  the  fatter  will  soon  become  the 
weaker  personage.  He  will  weigh  more,  but  will  be 
capable  of  doing  less  work.  The  bodily  strength  of 
an  individual  decreases  in  proportion  as  he  makes  fat, 
which — it  is  needless  to  repeat  the  fact — ^is  so  much 
strength  laid  on  one  side  in  the  shape  of  unemployed 
capital. 

A  diet  of  bread  and  water,  and  notliing  else,  would 
become,  in  the  long  run,  extremely  weakening.  Added 
to  a  strengthening  regimen,  it  would  most  assuredly 
bring  on  stoutness;  alone,  its  continued  action  must 
prove  injurious  to  health.  The  muscular  effoi*ts  which 
the  above-mentioned  American  Indians  are  capable  of 
making  are  far  inferior  to  those  of  well-fed  Europeans, 
who  will  easily  do  three  timed  as  much  work  as  the  former. 

If,  therefore,  a  watery  and  farinaceous  diet  excite 
the  development  of  certain  organs,  it  must  not  be  for- 
gotten that  it  supplies  insufficient  nutriment,  and  that 
it  generates  but  little  muscular  strength.  You  lose  in 
power  what  you  gain  in  volume ;  the  balance  remains 
the  same.  One  of  its  effects,  however,  must  be  noticed, 
as  it  is  of  great  importance  to  mothers  and  nurses — 
namely,  that  its  action  is  very  remarkable  in  increasing 
the  production  of  Milk.  Nay,  so  susceptible  is  this 
secretion  of  variation  from  outward  causes,  that  tlie 
diiferences  of  humidiiy  in  the  atmosphere  of  climates 
will  make  a  difference  in  the  quantity  of  milk  produced 
both  by  domestic  animals  and  their  mistresses. 


AUD  ITS  BELATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  25 

Let,  therefore,  every  nursing  mother,  especially  if 
thin,  gratify  at  will  her  desire  for  drink,  eating  plenty 
of  moist  and  &rinaceous  food — tea  and  bread-and-butter, 
good  broths  with  toasted  bread  or  rice  in  them — ^sus- 
tained by  meat,  good  beer,  or  porter,  or  wine,  to  keep 
up  the  necessary  strength.  Stout  nurses  have  less  need 
to  indulge  their  fits  of  thirstiness,  because  their  organism 
is  suffused  with  lymph,  whidi  holds  a  large  quantity 
of  water  in  reserve.  For  them,  the  veiy  act  of  nursing 
— supported  by  a  generous  diet — ^is  healthy  and  medi- 
cinal, restraining,  by  the  most  natural  means,  constitu- 
tional tendencies  to  embonpoint  or  dropsy. 

Excessive  thinness  may  proceed  from  severe  mental 
or  bodily  labour ;  from  disease,  or  a  morbid  state  either 
of  certain  organs  or  the  entire  constitution;  and,  thirdly, 
firom  improper  or  insufficient  food,  i.e.  from  starvation 
in  one  of  its  forms.  For  the  first,  the  obvious  remedy 
is  rest ;  easy  to  prescribe,  but  sometimes  liard  to  admi- 
nister. For  tlie  second,  recourse  must  be  had  to  sound 
and  safe  medical  advice;  for,  unfortunately,  there  are 
quacks  in  the  world  who  prey  upon  the  weakness  of  their 
patients,  making  them  believe  they  are  victims  of  disease 
which  has  in  reality  no  existence,  and  threatening  them 
with  terrible  consequences  to  result  from  causes  inade- 
quate to  produce  such  effects.  Their  tactics  are,  to  draw 
attention  to  themselves  by  vague,  mysterious,  and  repul- 
sive pamphlets ;  to  extort  from  really  imaginary  invalids 
the  confession  of  some  transitory  or  occasional  error ;  to 
excite  their  terrors  respecting  what  may  ensue,  and  to 
urge  the  belief  that  from  tJieir  hands  only  is  an  antidote 


26  CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

to  be  found  Phantom  maladies  are  to  be  averted  on  the 
payment  of  fees  which  are  any  thing  but  phantoms. 
By  exaggerating  or  misrepresenting  symptoms  (and 
often  by  false  statements,  either  ignorantly  or  fraudu- 
lently made),  they  lead  people  to  fancy  that  a  slight 
indisposition  or  loss  of  flesh  is  the  inevitable  precursor  of 
mortal  illness — ^unless  tliey  are  consulted,  at  No.  000, 
between  the  hours  of  ten  and  three.  They  alone  are 
capable  of  curing  otherwise  incurable  disease.  All 
ordinary  and  established  remedies  are  worthless.  And 
so  they  pursue  a  system  of  terrorism,  firightening  people 
out  of  their  lives,  and  driving  them  into  their  con- 
sulting-rooms  by  sheer  intimidation.  The  patient  who 
once  has  crossed  their  threshold  may  be  likened  to  a  fly 
in  a  spider's  net 

Therefore,  let  people  who  are  discontented  and  thin, 
eschewing  advertising  pamphleteers,  and  consulting  their 
family  doctor  and  their  cook,  try  tlie  benefit  to  be 
derived  from  cheerful  companionship,  fresh  air,  and 
kitchen  physic.  Or,  by  way  of  pastime,  if  so  minded, 
they  may  essay  an  old  specific  recorded  by  Aldrovandi ; 
from  whom  we  learn  that  the  Egyptian  dames  (the  lead- 
ing beauties  of  Pharaoh's  court)  employed  chicken-broth 
as  a  bath  to  fatten  their  pretty  selves.  Of  how  many 
chickens  the  broth  was  made,  and  how  spiced  and 
seasoned,  he  does  not  tell ;  but  the  etiquette  was,  that 
the  lady  to  be  fattened,  while  sitting  in  her  broth-bath, 
should  eat  one  whole  chicken  out  of  those  whose  broth 
supplied  her  bath. 

Leanness  from  insufficient  food  must  bo  considered 


AND  ITS  BEIATIOKS  TO  HEALTH.  27 

with  greater  seriousness  and  sympathy.  Few  people 
imagine  that  it  is  bronght  about  by  something  more  than 
mere  inanition  and  exhaustion.  It  is  not  the  empty 
stomach  only  which  causes  starving  people  to  grow  diin. 

We  hare  seen  that  when  an  animal  takes  in  more 
aliment  of  combustion  than  it  requires  for  present  use,  the 
blood  deposits  it  in  a  Savings-Banky  which  is  called  by 
butchers  and  cooks  the  Fat.  The  blood  acts  like  a  pro- 
yident  person, — and  its  action  is  guided  by  Creative 
Providence, — in  thus  storing  superfluous  combustible, 
instead  of  letting  it  run  to  waste. 

We  have  seen  that  we  are  warmed  by  an  internal 
fire,  kept  up  by  fuel  carried  to  it  by  the  blood ;  that  fiiel 
is  derived  from  the  food  which  we  take  in  at  our  daily 
meals.  If  there  is  enough  fiiel,  and  a  little  to  spare,  it 
is  well ;  if  there  is  not  enough,  so  much  the  worse  for 
the  unfortunates  who  have  not  enough.  Those  who  can 
eat  and  drink  whatever  they  like,  whenever  they  are 
hungry  and  dry — their  three,  four,  five  meals  a  day — 
have  enough;  perhaps,  to  spare.  Those  with  scanty 
rations — one  or  two  niggardly  snacks  a  day,  beginm'ng 
fiunished,  and  leaving  off  hungry  because  there  is  no 
more ;  and  the  weather  may  be  cold,  the  clothing  light, 
the  dweUing  leaky  to  wind  and  rain — ^have  not  enough* 
What  happens  ? 

The  blood  is  inexorable.  It  has  its  duty  to  fulfil — to 
feed  the  fire;  and  it  vrUl  feed  it,  let  what  may  happen. 
The  temperature  of  the  body  miMt  be  maintained.  If 
there  is  no  fat  or  fuel  in  reserve ;  if  the  stomach  takes 
in  no  fiiel,  or  not  enough, — ^the  Blood  relentlessly  lays 


28  CONSIDERATIONS  TOUOHINa  FOOD, 

hands  on  every  tiling  witliin  its  reach  to  keep  the  flame 
of  life  from  going  out  A  cold  body  is  a  dead  body ; 
and  its  task  is  to  prevent  that :  which  Jean  Mac^  illus- 
trates by  a  historical  anecdote. 

In  the  roign  of  Francis  L  of  France,  there  lived 
in  the  Perigord  an  honest  peasant,  whose  name  was 
Bernard  Palissy.  In  those  days,  crockery  plates  were 
not  to  he  liad  by  every  body  that  wanted  them.  Tlie 
Italians,  who  alone  possessed  the  secret  of  making  them, 
kept  it  to  themselves ;  and  Bernard,  who  knew  a  little 
about  tlie  matter  through  his  experience  as  a  working 
glass-blower,  set  to  work  to  discover  it  all  by.himsel£ 
He  turned  potter,  without  asking  any  body's  advice, 
building  furnaces,  collecting  fuel  as  he  could,  making 
his  first  pots  more  or  less  clumsily,  lighting  his  fires, 
baking  his  wares,  and  awaiting  success.  It  was  fifteen 
or  sixteen  years  before  it  came.  He  made  fifteen  or 
sixteen  ruinous  experiments,  which  would  have  dis- 
couraged a  man  of  wealth.  But  he,  as  soon  as  he  had 
scraped  together  a  little  money  witli  his  glass,  returned 
to  his  task  with  indomitable  perseverance,  insensible  to 
poverty,  deaf  to  his  neighbom's'  taunts,  and  immovable 
by  his  wife's  maledictions,  who  was  furious  at  having  to 
go  partners  in  liis  heroism  witJiout  the  slightest  inclina- 
tion to  do  so. 

One  day,  the  rumour  ran  through  the  village — la 
Chapelle  Biron— «  Bernard  is  gone  crazy.  He  is 
burning  his  house  to  bake  his  pots !"  And  it  was  true, 
as  far  as  tlie  pots  and  the  house  wore  concerned.  While 
a  batcli  was  bakiug,  wood  ran  short.    Bernard  began  by 


AND  ITS  RELATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  29 

taking  the  palisades  of  his  garden  ;  then  the  tables  and 
dressers;  and  then  the  floor.  What  his  wife  said  may 
be  supposed.  Bat  he  paid  no  attention  to  her  polite 
remarks.  With  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  implacable 
famace,  he  fed  it — ^and  fed  it — ^thinking  of  nothing  but 
his  pottery  in  jeopardy.  The  joists  of  Uie  roof  would 
have  followed  the  floor,  if  his  pots  had  not'  been  baked 
enough. 

The  Blood  does  the  same,  when  combustibles  run 
short  It  pulls  the  house  to  pieces,  and  throws  it  into 
the  fire,  bit  by  bit.  The  &t  naturally  goes  first,  as 
has  already  been  explained.  It  is  the  wood-stack 
provided  as  a  matter  of  course,  and  may  totally  dis- 
appear without  injury  to  the  building.  Then  comes 
the  turn  of  the  muscles — ^moro  useful,  but  not  exactly 
indispensable.  They  are  Bernard's  garden  palisades :  in 
case  of  absolute  necessity,  we  can  exist  without  them. 
They  are  melted  down,  so  to  speak,  after  a  few  days^ 
fasting,  and  the  patient  is  a  bundle  of  skin  and  bone. 
If  the  same  state  of  privation  continues,  and  the  flesh, 
exhausted,  suffices  no  longer,  the  Blood  does  not 
hesitate.  It  boldly  attacks  the  most  essential  organs, 
without  considering  the  consequences :  and  if  succour 
from  without  does  not  come  in  time,  the  house  is  no 
longer  habitable.  Life  is  turned  out  of  doors;  the  man 
dies  of  hunger. 

But  exactly  as  poor  Bernard  Palissy  worked  in 
reality  for  the  benefit  of  his  wife  and  children  (whose 
welfare  he  was  struggling  to  secure,  although  at  the 
risk  of  their  not  having  a  house  to  hide  their  heads  in), 


30  CONSIDERATIONS  TOUCHING  FOOD, 

SO  does  ihe  Blood  strive,  to  the  last  moment,  to  save  the 
Life  which  it  finally  evicts;  and  the  work  of  destruc- 
tion, which  ends  by  turning  it  out,  has  actually  pro- 
longed Lifers  stay  in  tlie  mansion.  Without  it,  all 
would  have  been  sooner  over. 

My  readers  will  imagine — I  hope  with  reason — that 
no  such  demolition  of  their  bodily  frame  is  ever  likely 
to  happen  to  tJiem;  and  yet,  the  wealthiest  are  exposed 
to  accident  by  shipwreck,  siege,  and  adventurous  travel. 
But  at  least  they  will  understand  tlie  sufferings  of 
starving  creatures  who,  in  consequence  of  insufficient 
food,  are  preyed  upon  and  brought  to  tlie  grave  by  the 
action  of  the  vital  fluid  which,  in  prosperous  circum- 
stances, would  supply  them  with  continued  strength 
and  spirits.  It  is  a  lesson  of  Thankfulness — and  of 
Charity. 

To  return  to  our  Condiments.  Salty  Chloride  of 
Sodium,  serves  as  the  basis  of  all  seasonings  into  which 
sugar  does  not  enter.  Some  cooks  even  put  a  little 
salt  into  sweet  things,  as  plum-pudding.  It  excites 
digestion,  by  promoting  an  abundant  secretion  of  tlie 
stomach^s  fluids;  and  the  secretion  is  so  considerable, 
when  a  large  quantity  of  salt  has  been  eaten,  that  severe 
thirst  is  excited  before  the  digestion  is  complete. 
Without  salt,  a  large  quantity  of  mucilaginous  aliments 
would  be  with  difficulty  assimilated;  indeed,  in  tlio 
present  state  of  civilisation,  there  are  few  articles  of 
food  that  can  be  digested  without  salt.  This  condiment 
has  no  apparent  general  effect  unless  used  immoderately. 
In  that  case,  it  is  accused  of  causing  scurvy, — which  is 


AUD  ITS  RELATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  31 

not  trne ;  scarvy  being  for  the  most  part  brought  on  bj 
the  want  of  a  due  proportion  of  fresh  vegetable  matters 
in  the  dietary.  Nevertheless,  many  people  cannot  eat 
ham  or  very  salt  eheese  at  three  meals  running  without 
having  pain  or  soreness  in  their  gums. 

Vineffar  is  best  obtained  by  the  acetic  fermentation 
of  wine.  When  employed  in  moderate  doses,  its  action 
is  merely  local,  like  that  of  salt  It  similarly  excites 
the  salivary  glands,  the  mucous  reservoirs  in  the  mem- 
brane of  the  mouth.  Too  freely  taken,  it  is  apt  to 
excite  in  the  stomach  an  irritation  which,  acting  sympa- 
thetically on  the  respiratory  passages,  occasions  cough. 
Its  pretended  property  of  reducing  stoutness  is  mani- 
:fested  only  at  the  expense  of  health,  and  by  deep 
injuries  to  one  or  more  of  the  organs  essential  to  life. 
It  is  a  seasoning  scarcely  suited  to  nervous  persons,  and 
is  even  productive  of  harm  in  cases  where  the  breathing 
apparatus  is  irritable. 

Garlic  is  .one  of  the  things  which  may  hardly  be 
mentioned  te  British  ears  polite.  Nevertheless,  in  the 
South  of  Europe  and  elsewhere,  it  is  very  largely 
employed  as  a  condiment,  as  well  as  very  generally 
confided  in  as  an  alterative,  stimulant,  tonic,  and 
sudorific  domestic  medicine.  This,  it  must  be  allowed, 
is  a  tolerably  fair  allowance  of  useful  qualities,  at 
least  sufficient  to  make  it  worth  an  invalid's  considera- 
tion. Two  things  are  adverse  to  its  use — the  prejudice 
against  its  very  name,  and  its  peculiar  smell.'  The  first 
will  be  shaken  off  by  people  of  sense ;  tlie  second  is 
immaterial  when  weakly  persons  are  being  nursed  in 


32  COKSIDEBATIONS  TOUCHIKO  FOOD^ 

retirement,  and  restoration  to  health  is  the  paramount 
object 

With  regard  to  garlic  taken  in  society :  There  exists 
a  story  (it  is  not  new)  of  a  slap  on  the  face  having  been 
given  at  a  convivial  meeting;  when,  to  avoid  serious 
consequences,  some  one  had  the  presence  of  mind  to 
think  of  passing  it  on  all  round ;  so  that,  eveiy  body 
having  received  a  slap— in  joke— nobody  could  reason- 
ably take  offence. 

The  same  is  the  case  with  garlic.  If  administered 
to  one  of  a  company^ — even  if  that  company  consists  of 
no  more  than  two — it  must  be  administered  to  all.  As 
the  bride  said,  when  asked  if  she  would  take  seasoning 
with  her  duck,  "  Well,  dear  Johnny,  I  hardly  know.  If 
you  do,  I  do ;  if  you  don't,  I  don't"  But  garlic  is  sucli 
a  matter  of  use,  that  persons  accustomed  to  it  eat  it  raw 
wiUi  the  same  satisfaction  as  they  would  munch  a  radish. 

Garlic  has  a  stimulating  effect  on  the  stomach,  owing 
to  a  very  volatile  acrid  principle,  which  is  soluble  in 
water.  Itself  contains  but  little  nutritive  matter,  but 
aids  the  digestion  of  mucilaginous  and  gelatinous  dishes' 
— calf  s  head,  sheeps'  trotters,  cow-heel,  and  the  like. 
Its  general  effects  are  a  certain  excitement  of  the  ex- 
halant  organs,  caused  by  the  sharp  stimulus  given  to 
the  stomach,  perhaps  also  by  the  passage  into  the  blood 
of  its  volatile  principle,  which  perfumes  with  its  odour 
not  only  the  mouth,  but  the  perspiration,  &c. 

Garlic  is  in  repute  as  a  preservative  against  in- 
fectious disease  and  unwholesome  miasms;  which  is 
wrong,  if  attributed  to  any  special  virtue  or  power 


AND  ITS  RELATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  33 

of  neutralism ff  noxious  emanations,  but  right  if  referred 
to  its  stimulating  effects  on  the  internal  organs,  thereby 
determining  a  movement  of  the  fluids  from  within  to 
without.  The  absorbent  pores  are  stopped  by  their  own 
transpirant  action.  The  surface  of  the  body  is  varnished 
over,  as  it  were,  with  a  thin  coating  of  moisture  or 
even  of  mere  vapour,  which  prevents  the  elements  of 
infection  from  entering  the  system.  With  this  prophy- 
lactic object  in  view,  it  is  not  an  unwise  precaution  to 
eat  of  some  dish  well  seasoned  with  garlic  before  visiting 
spots  afflicted  with  cholera,  small*pox,  measles,  typhoid 
fever,  or  other  reputed  infectious  disease. 

Amongst  the  wealthy,  garlic  suits  the  sluggish 
stomachs  of  lymphatic  subjects  as  well  as  those  weak- 
ened by  a  tropical  climate.  It  is  beneficial  to  sojourners 
in  severely  cold  countries,  and  to  individuals  who,  with 
a  diet  of  inferior  bread  and  poor  pasty  soup,  have 
yet  to  exert  great  muscular  force  to  maintain  them- 
selves and  their  families. 

Garlic,  moreover,  is  useful,  by  replacing  calomel 
and  other  dangerous  medicines,  as  a  vermifuge.  The 
dose  is  an  ordinary  clove  of  garlic  (a  clove  is  one  of 
the  portions  into  which  a  root  or  bulb  of  garlic  naturally 
divides  itself)  taken  at  breakfast  or  dinner.  It  may  be 
eaten  with  bread  and  salt,  like  cress  or  any  other 
imcooked  vegetable;  or  it  may  be  chopped  very  fine, 
and  sprinkled  over  salad  containing  hard  eggs,  cold 
fish,  crab,  &c.  &c.  It  may  be  administered  to  young 
children,  boiled  in  milk.  Invalids  who  cannot  overcome 
their  repugnance  may  swallow  it  in  pills* 


34  COKSIDERATIOKS  TOUCHIKa  FOOD, 

Onions  J  chivesy  roeambole^  sJudlots,  and  leeks  belong  to 
the  same  Natural  Family  as  garlic,  and  possess  the 
same  properties,  only  in  a  less  degree.  Bocambole 
comes  nearest  to  it  Leeks,  mostly  used  to  flavour 
broths,  lose  their  stimulating  quality  by  boiling,  and  so 
afford  only  a  mucilaginous  and  emollient  ingredient, 
which  however  has  its  value. 

Pepper  is  a  pungent  aromatic  seed  brought  from 
the  equatorial  regions.  It  acts  on  the  stomach  as  a 
powerAil  stimulant,  causing  a  sensation  of  warmth  or 
heat.  In  small  quantities,  it  is  advantageously  associ- 
ated with  white  and  gelatinous  meats,  as  veal  and  rabbit; 
with  the  tendonous  parts  of  animals,  as  feet  and  heads ; 
with  oily  fish,  as  herrings  and  eels;  with  shell-fish, 
which  contain  no  excitant  principles;  and  with  muci- 
laginous, insipid  vegetables,  as  cardoons,  cauliflowers, 
Jerusalem  artichokes,  cucumbers,  asparagus,  and  the 
like.  It  assists  the  digestion  of  all  those  aliments  which, 
by  themselves,  make  but  a  feeble  appeal  to  the  powers 
of  the  stomach.  Taken  in  excess,  it  brings  on  inflam- 
mation of  the  stomach,  and  even  of  the  intestinal 
canal.  And  in  persons  who  have  already  suffered  from 
gastritis,  it  is  more  apt,  even  in  moderate  doses,  to 
cause  the  complaint  to  return  than  wine  or  any  other 
stimulant. 

Pepper  not  merely  exerts  a  local  action  on  the 
animal  economy,  but,  whether  by  sympathy  or  by  intro- 
duction into  the  circulation,  it  produces  stimulant  effects 
ou  all  the  organs.  A  good  deal  of  what  is  said  about 
pepper  is  applicable  to  Ginger^  Allspice j  Cloves^  Ntxtmegy 


AKD  ITS  BELATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  35 

Cinnainonj  Capsieum  or  Cayenne  Pepper ^  MuMtardLf  and 
Harse'TaduJu 

Respecting  tlie  wholesomeneBS  and  ezpedieney  of 
spioes^  as  doctors  differ,  the  present  Doctor  will  only 
give  a  snnunaiy  of  their  opinions.  The  role  to  follow 
most  be  fonnded  on  each  individual's  personal  experi- 
ence. Many  people  like  and  are  the  better  for  an 
occasionally  high-spiced  dish,  partaken  of  at  soffidentty 
distant  intervals,  whose  stomachs  woold  be  pnt  oat  of 
order  by  eating  the  same  qnantily  of  seasoning  every 
day.  This  is  equally  applicable  to  horse-radish,  mus- 
tard, aromatic  herbs,  and  the  sauces  strongly  tinctured 
with  them,  as  to  the  spices  proper. 

The  cool-systom  school  toll  us  that  pepper,  after 
augmenting  the  activity  of  the  heart,  causes  itching  of 
die  skin,  and  often  eruptions ;  that  it  is  unsuited  to  the 
inhabitants  of  temperate  climates — that  it  diortens  their 
lives ;  and  is  good  for  nothing  except  to  bring  on  irrita- 
tion of  every  kind ;  that  with  us,  persons  of  lymphatic 
temperament,  and  old  people  whose  constitutions  are  not 
irritable  and  whose  stomachs  are  in  a  perfectly  healthy 
«tate,  may  alone  indulge  in  the  use  of  pepper.  It  dis- 
agrees with  bilious  and  sanguine  temperaments,  as  well 
as  with  young  people  in  general.  It  is  a  veriteble 
poison  for  irritable  constitutions,  when  recovering  £rom 
any  form  of  irritation  whatsoever. 

Nevertheless,  it  is  admitted  in  practice  that  use  may 
render  condiments  almost  as  indispensable  as  aliments. 
It  reduces  the  latter  to  the  impossibility  of  yielding 
nutriment  without  the  assistance  of  the  former. 


36  COKSII>ERATIONS  TOUCHINa  FOOD, 

When  it  is  desired  to  diminish  without  inconvenience 
the  quantity  of  seasoning  taken  bj  an  individual  whose 
robust  temperament  and  slight  bodil j  exercise  render  it 
unnecessaiyy  but  who  complains  that  he  can  digest 
nothing  without  its  aid,  we  must  begin  bj  putting  him 
on  smaller  rations  of  foody  taking  care  that  thej  be  of  a 
nature  to  tax  the  energies  of  his  stomach  as  little  as 
possible.  After  which,  by  gradually  augmenting  both 
the  allowance  and  the  solidity  of  his  aliment,  the  organ 
whose  excitabiliiy  had  been  exliausted  will  soon  recover 
its  healthy  tone  and  duly  fulfil  its  digestive  office. 

But  if,  during  this  apatlietic  state  of  the  stomach, 
heavy  and  unavoidable  muscular  toil  has  to  be  per- 
formed, and  if  it  becomes  necessary  to  take  liberal 
nourishment  in  order  to  support  it,  then  tlie  use  of 
stimulant  condiments  cannot  be  abandoned ;  for  without 
them  the  stomach,  exhausted  like  the  rest  of  the  system, 
could  not  digest  The  only  way  to  ameliorate  this  un- 
satisfisictoiy  state  of  things,  is  to  reduce  the  muscular 
toil  within  moderate  and  reasonable  limits.  The  remark 
applies  equally  to  every  act  or  effort  which  has  a  tendency 
to  exhaust  the  system. 

If  the  apathetic  state  of  the  stomach  arises  from  a 
general  apathy  of  the  constitution,  as  is  the  case  with 
subjects  of  extremely  lymphatic  temperament,  that  state 
must  be  remedied  by  acting  upon  the  whole  system  at 
once.  For  the  use  of  stimulating  condiments,  without 
any  other  change  in  the  regimen,  would  only  irritate 
the  mucous  membrane  of  the  stomach,  without  com- 
municating to  that  organ  a  greater  degree  of  constitu- 


1 


AKD  ITS  RELATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  37 

iional  energy.  With  stimnlants  to  the  stomach  there 
must  coincide  stimulants  to  the  lungs  and  the  skin — 
such  as  a  warm  and  dry  atmosphere,  greater  exposure 
to  the  solar  rays,  flannel  clothing,  frictions^  baths, 
Ac. 

It  is  rare  that  a  much  enfeebled  digestion  is  not  the 
result  of  chronic  gastritis.  Mistakes  on  this  point  are 
so  grave — nay,  so  dangerous — that  the  physician's  advice 
should  be  had  recourse  to. 

The  following  symptoms  are  important  to  note. 
Condiments  assitt  digestion,  if  the  habitual  languor  of 
the  stomach  is  simply  owing  to  its  weakness.  On  the 
other  hand,  they  increase  the  uneasiness  felt  after  eating, 
if  that  uneasiness  arises  fix)m  gastric  irritation.  So  that 
a  few  glasses  of  good  wine,  or  a  little  spice,  are  the 
touchstone  which  decide  whether  a  weak  digestion  is 
owing  to  Hie  inactivity  of  the  stomach,  or  to  its  irritation^ 
supposing  tliat  other  symptoms  leave  the  question  in 
obscurity. 

Nevertheless,  it  must  be  admitted  that  cfrtain  per- 
sons, although  evidently  suffering  from  a  damaged 
stomach,  digest  better  when  stimulating  substances  are 
added  to  their  food.  And  yet  the  continued  use  of 
those  substances,  by  increasing  the  stomach's  irritation, 
tends  to  bring  about  its  final  destruction. 

The  warm-system  school  recommends,  on  the  con- 
trary, tliat  dishes  which  constitute  our  daily  diet  should 
be  well  seasoned  by  the  cook,  on  the  ground  that  con- 
diments, like  liqueurs  or  generous  wines  at  dessert,  are 
eminenily  vermifuge.     Insipid,  sweet,  and  mucnaginous 


38  COHSIDERATIONB  TOUCHING  FOOD^ 

dishes,  green  fruits  and  unripe  vegetables,  encourage  the 
development  of  intestinal  parasites,  and  thereby  become 
the  source  of  obstinate  and  increasing  indisposition. 
Well-seasoned  food,  thej  hold,  agrees  with  all  constita- 
tions  at  every  period  of  life,  and  was  only  prohibited 
by  medical  prejudices  entertained  by  a  diqne  of  p»c- 
titioners  at  the  commencement  of  the  present  century. 
They  frightened  their  patients  into  abstinence  from  spice 
and  vinous  beverages.  People  have  now  got  over  their 
fright,  and  find  their  digestion  the  better  for  it 

To  all  which  may  be  said,  ^^  A  middle  course  is  wisest. 
Common  sense  teaches  that,  as  excess  is  hurtful,  so 
complete  abstinence  may  be  likewise  an  error.  It  is 
possible  to  us^,  without  abusing.  The  exact  measure 
must  depend  on  individual  experience.'^ 

But  the  question  of  condiments  is  important,  because 
all  animals  are  nourished,  not  so  much  by  the  quantity 
of  nutriment  contained  in  their  food,  as  by  their  power 
of  digesting  it.  Whatever,  therefore,  assists  digestion, 
at  the  same  time  increases  nutrition.  For,  to  maintain 
health  and  favour  growth,  the  two  conditions  must  be 
present — ^the  food  must  contain  sufficient  aliment,  and 
the  stomach  must  have  the  power  of  appropriating  that 
aliment.  Food,  however  nourishing,  which  is  not  di- 
gested, renders  no  service  to  health  and  strength ;  the 
eater  might  as  well  have  eaten  substances  absolutely 
innutritious.  Hay  perfectly  su£Sces  for  the  sustenance 
of  herbivorous  and  ruminant  animals ;  but,  whatever 
nutriment  it  contains,  carnivorous  animals  cannot  live 
on  it,  simply  because  their  stomachs  are  incapable  of 


AND  rrS  BKLATIONS  TO  HEALTH.  39 

extracting  its  nutriment,  and  not  at  all  beoaose  it  is 
ionolritions. 

Professor  Tyndall,  with  his  marvellous  clearness  of 
view,  puts  the  case  both  strongly  and  strikinglj.  ^^  Those 
who  reflect  on  vital  processes— on  the  changes  which 
occur  in  the  animal  body,  and  the  relation  of  the  forces 
involved  in  food  to  muscular  force — ^are  led  naturally  to 
entertain  the  idea  of  interdependence  between  those 
forces."  "  For  every  stroke  of  work  done  by  the  steam<> 
engine,  for  every  pound  that  it  lifts,  and  eveiy  wheel  it 
sets  in  motion,  an  equivalent  quantity  of  heat  disappears. 
A  ton  of  coal  furnishes  by  its  combustion  a  certain  definite 
amount  of  heat" 

The  strength  of  a  steam-engine  is  derived  from  the 
combustion  of  the  carbon  in  the, coal  supplied  to  it,  as 
the  strength  of  a  horse  is  derived  from  the  combustion 
of  the  carbon  in  the  hay  supplied  to  it  Their  power  of 
working,  quite  independent  of  vitality,  is  derived  from 
a  like  cause — ^the  combustion  of  carbon ;  only  the  steam- 
en^ne  can  bum  coal,  the  horse  cannot,  because  he  cannot 
digest  it.  But  suppose  for  a  moment  that,  by  the  addition 
of  some  sauce,  some  subtle  ingredient,  coal  were  rendered 
digestible  by  a  horse's  stomach,  it  would  then  supply  him 
also  with  the  requisite  quantity  of  heat  and  muscular  force. 

Now,  the  Cook's  art,  assisted  by  the  spice-box,  are 
to  the  sick  and  the  convalescent  what  the  imaginary 
ingredient  mixed  with  coal  would  be  to  the  horse.  They 
render  indigestible  things  digestible ;  they  extract  nourish- 
ment from  what  would  otherwise  refuse  to  afford  it;  they 
cause  life  to  linger  and  establish  its  quarters  in  the  fragile 


40  CONSIDEBATIONB  TOUCHmO  FOOD. 

tenement  it  was  on  the  point  of  quitting.  The  soup- 
kettle  and  the  stew-pan  thus  take  rank  as  veritable 
chemical  apparatus ;  the  cruet-stand  unexpectedly  rises 
to  the  dignity  of  a  medicine-chest. 

It  is  dear,  then,  that  in  providing  for  the  sick  and 
convalescent,  we  must  consider  not  so  much  the  absolute 
quality  of  their  food — ^not  what  we^  in  robust  health,  can 
enjoy  and  grow  fleshy  on — but  what  they  can  take  and 
bear ;  what  they  like,  what  they  fancy,  what  they  long 
for.  Their  invalid's  instinct  often  leads  them  right, 
though  opposed  to  what  we  should  choose  for  them. 
Nor  should  attendant  friends  refuse  to  gratify  the  wish, 
unless  it  bears  marks  of  absolute  insanity.  The  first 
thing  which  one  delicate  patient,  flickering  between  life 
and  death,  would  take  after  the  crisis  of  a  typhoid  fever 
was  three  or  four  cockles  I  Another  patient,  very  hard 
hit  by  the  small-pox,  a  few  hours  after  it  turned  would 
have  a  pint  of  porter,  had  it,  and  recovered  rapidly. 
Persons  familiar  with  sick  chambers  will  easily  multiply 
like  instances.  What  wo  call  the  whimsies  of  tlie  sick 
are  quite  as  frequently  the  suggestions  of  nature.  To 
refuse  to  gratify  them  is  not  only  harsh,  but  in  most 
cases  injudicious  and  injm'ious. 

The  order  in  which  articles  of  food  are  eaten  is  also 
not  without  its  importance.  The  keeping  back  of  the 
most  stimulant  dish  until  the  close  of  a  meal  is  an 
assistance  rendered  to  digestion,  which  is  usually  retarded 
by  the  reception  of  sweet  or  insipid  substances.  Such 
may  be  partaken  of  with  greater  advantage  when  the 
stomach  still  is  empty. 


BOILING,  BOASTIKG,  ETC.,  AND  THEIR  EFFECTS.       4JL 


IL 

4 

OPERATIONS. 

BOIUNa,  ROASTING,  ETC.,  AND  THEIR  EFFECTS. 

Cookery  is  iihe  art  of  rendering  food  more  digestible,  or 
more  palatable,  by  exposing  it  for  a  time  to  the  action 
of  moderate  heat  Heat  is  the  grand  agent  which  causes 
change  in  the  internal  constitution,  the  outward  appear- 
ance, the  very  nature,  of  all  bodies.  Instances  familiar 
to  the  most  careless  eye  are  water  tmder  its  three  most 
dissimilar  forms  of  solid  ice,  a  liquid,  and  steam  or  vapour ; 
and  butter  under  a  July  sun,  and  butter  from  the  dairy 
on  a  January  morning.  Without  being  philosophers,  it 
was  natural  that  men,  from  the  earliest  epochs,  should 
employ  this  universal  agent,  heat,  to  modify  the  sub- 
stance capable  of  serving  them  as  alimeq^.  But  with 
forther  knowledge,  both  of  the  means  of  employing  heat 
in  its  various  degrees,  and  of  the  nature  of  the  viands 
on  which  it  is  made  to  act,  a  cook  will  set  about  her 
work  in  a  more  rational  manner,  and  with  a  greater 
certainty  of  satisfiustory  results. 

The  ways  in  wluch  heat  is  employed  in  cookery  are 
few.  First,  we  have  roasting — probably  the  oldest 
mode  of  cooking.  Boasting  before  a  fire  is  cooking  by 
radiated  heat — ^the  heat-rays,  darted  out  from  the  fire, 
are  caught  by  the  joint  hanging  before  it.  In  tliis  case, 
although  a  good  cook  will  screen  her  meat  from  draughts, 
to  allow  the  heat  to  penetrate  the  joint  as  equally  as 


42  OPERATIONS. 

may  be^  the  poasSnlity  of  the  process  is  quite  Independent 
of  the  warmth  of  the  surrounding  air.  Professor  Tjndall 
tells  us  that — ^^  A  joint  of  meat  might  be  roasted  before 
a  fire,  the  air  around  the  joint  being  cold  as  ice."  Tlie 
tin  reflector  and  the  Dutch  oven  do  more  than  keep  off" 
cold  currents  of  air ;  they  radiate  back  upon  the  joint 
the  rays  darfced  on  them  by  the  fire. 

For  this  kind  of  roasting,  either  by  the  horizontal 
spit  or  the  bottle-jack,  the  English  open  grate  is  excellent 
The  latch-pan  also  renders  great  service,  by  allowing^ 
small  things  whose  flesh  is  tender — such  as  green  geese^ 
spring  chickens,  leverets,  joints  of  house-lamb— to  lie  in 
it  before  the  fire,  at  suitable  distances, — ^getting  well 
heated  throughout,  and,  in  short,  nearly  cooked,  by  being 
turned  over  and  over  and  basted  with  dripping,  until 
their  final  finishing  ofl^  and  browning.  Ducks  and  wild-^ 
fowl  especially,  so  treated,  combine  in  themselves  the 
double  advantage  of  a  French  aau^^-ing  in  a  saucepan 
and  English  roasting. 

Roasts  before  the  fire  (suspended,  or  on  a  spit)  are 
the  most  highly  esteemed  of  all.  There  is  more  of  the 
real  flavour  of  the  meat  retained,  and  more  gravy.  The 
joint  is  less  greasy,  less  dried  up  and  stringy,  and,  con- 
sequently, the  more  digestible  and  nutritious.  On  the 
Continent,  the  best  roasts  are  done  on  spits  be/ore  wood 
fires.  In  Paris,  there  are  tradesmen  (who  sell  ready* 
roasted  fowls  and  meat  done  in  that  particular  way,  and 
who  sometimes  are  also  Restaurants)  calling  themselves 
JRotisseurSj  to  announce  that  they  are  not  ordinary  bakers 
of  meats. 


BOIUNOy  BOASTIKG,  ETC.,  Aim  THEIR  EFFECTS,       43 

Baking  is  another  form  of  roasting,  only  it  is  no 
longer  done  bj  radiant  heat  alone,  which  is  the  purest  of 
all  modes  of  applying  heat  In  tlie  process  of  baking  in 
ovens,  hot  air  plays  a  vexy  important  part,  although 
there  is  also  the  great  amount  of  heat  radiated  from  the 
sides  of  the  oven,  and  conducted  from  the  floor.  Now, 
hot  air  is  dry  air ;  it  may  also  bo  charged  with  smoke, 
or  tainted  with  the  smell  of  burnt  grease,  &c.  There-* 
fore,  to  roast  well  in  an  oven  requires  frequent  basting, 
— which  cannot  easily  be  done  when  the  oven,  is  largo, 
because  opening  the  door  might  cool  it  too  soon, — and 
great  care  that  no  unwished-for  flavour  be  communi- 
cated to  the  joint.  Meat  baked  in  large  ovens  will  not 
be  eaten  out  of  choice,  although,  when  large  numbers 
of  people  have  to  be  provided  for,  ^^  funeral  baked 
meats''  may  be  accepted  as  a  matter  of  necessity.  In 
several  English  cooking  stoves,  as  in  the  French  cuisinikreitf 
roasting  in  the  oven  can  be  performed  so  well,  that  no 
reasonable  person  ought  to  complain  of  it 

Boasting  in  hot  ashes,  or  amongst  heated  stones,  is  a 
primitive  but  effectual  mode  of  preparation  applied  to^ 
roots,  vegetables,  and  hard -fleshed  fruit — chestnuts,. 
potatoes,  yams,  bread-fruit ;  also  by  the  Islanders  of  the 
Pacific  Ocean  to  animal  food.  Shell-fish  may  likewise 
be  cooked  in  that  way.  In  this  case,  heat  is  directly 
communicated  by  contact.  In  modem  cookery,  it  is 
represented  by  the  small  iron  ovens,  covered  with  a  lid, 
in  which — placed  in  the  midst  of  a  gentle  fire,  or  set  on 
the  embers  and  covered  with  live  charcoal,  turf,  or  red- 
hot  cinders — cakes,  roUs,  Uttle  loaves,  and  other  ^^  small 


44  OPERATIONS. 

things,"  can  bo  done  "twice  a  day,'*  or  oftener,  to  a 
verj  eatable  condition,  with  care.  Such  ovens  render 
valuable  service  on  shipboard,  in  colonies,  and  during 
excursions  in  little-travelled  regions.  They  save  the  ex- 
plorer from  the  tmhealthy  continuance  of  a  biscuit  and 
dried  or  salt  meat  diet 

Braising^  again,  is  a  development  of  the  primitive 
mode  of  cooking  in  hot  ashes.  A  braising-pan  is  con- 
trived to  have  a  lid  which  will  hold  lighted  charcoal  on 
its  top.  The  viands  to  be  cooked  are  therefore  between 
two  fires — one  above  and  one  beneath.  The  operation 
must  be  performed  slowly,  and  requires  great  care.  The 
cover  must  fit  so  closely  as  to  prevent  all  evaporation, 
causing  the  meat  to  be  tlioroughly  impregnated  with  the 
flavour  of  the  vegetables  and  aromatics  employed ;  and 
carrot,  onion,  parsley,  thyme,  bay-leaf,  and  cloves,  are 
indispensable  to  a  braise,  and  they  may  be  increased  or 
varied  by  chervil,  knotted  marjoram,  celery,  red  wine, 
Madeira,  and  other  flavours.  Every  thing  braised  must 
be  thoroughly  done,  and  allowed  to  take  its  proper  time. 
For  instance.  Braised  Leg  of  Mutton  is  otherwise  known 
as  Gigot  de  sept  Heuresy  or  Seven-Hours'  Leg  of  Mutton. 
Braised  dishes  may  suit  the  convalescent  and  the  healthy; 
but  they  are  rather  too  concentrated  for  Uie  sick  and  the 
sedentary.  The  name  of  the  process  explains  its  nature, 
braise  being  French  for  live  charcoal  embers. 

Broiling  or  Grilling  on  a  gridiron  is  also  another  form 
of  roasting.*    It  may  be  done  over  a  clear  cinder  fire; 

*  *<  To  Toast  Mackarel,  they  must  be  wrapped  in  fennel,  and  put 
upon  the  gridiron,  at  a  charcoal  fire,  turning  them  often.     When 


BOILINO,  BOASTING^  STC,  AND  THEIR  EFFECTS.       45 

but  by  far  the  best  way  is  to  have  a  brick  or  stone 
shelf,  at  about  the  height  of  an  ordinary  table,  excln- 
sively  devoted  to  broiling,  by  the  side  of  the  cooking 
stove,  which  leaves  the  fire-place  free  for  other  pur- 
poses. The  gridiron  (a  larffe  one)  stands  on  tliis  shelf, 
and  under  it  is  spread  a  sufficiency  of  live  charcoal 
to  do  the  broiling  required.  Moreover,  the  gridiron 
may  have  over  it,  high  enough  not  to  impede  the  cook's 
proceedings,  a  tin  funnel-shaped  chimney  (communi- 
cating with  the  kitchen  chimney),  to  cany  off  the  car- 
bonic-acid gas  from  the  charcoal,  and  the  smoke  from 
any  fat  that  may  fall  upon  it. 

Broiling  over,  like  roasting  before,  the  fire,  is  almost 
entirely  effected  by  radiant  heat,  although  a  small  quan- 
tity of  hot  air  or  gas  does  rise  from  the  burning  char- 
coal. It  is  the  closeness  of  the  fire  to  the  meat  which 
makes  its  operation  so  efficient  If  expertly  done,  broiled 
food  is  amongst  the  wholesomest;  and  Toasting  and 
Broiling  are  the  same — one  being  done  vertically,  the 
other  horizontally.  Broiled  things,  with  proper  atten- 
tion to  the  fire,  are  entirely  at  the  cook's  command, 
and  open  to  her  observation.  There  need  be  no  burning 
— ^no  drying-up  and  cooking  to  rags — no  serving  raw. 
There  may  be  just  as  much,  or  as  little,  seasoning  as 
agrees  with  individual  tastes.  Gravies  and  sauces,  if 
required,  can  be  served  in  addition ;  and,  for  a  small 
party,  nothing  is  easier  than  to  send  up  hot  Fish 
(which  are  firm  enough  to  bear  it)  are  lighter  for  inva- 

roftsted,  they  most  be  opened,  and  a  good  sauce  made  under  them 
with  butter,  parslej,  and  gooseberries,  the  whole  very  well  seasoned." 
— Dennis  de  CoeUogon,  Kt  of  St,  Lazare,  M,D, 


46  OPERATIONS. 

lids  broiled  than  fried.  They  are  cooked  in  nothing 
but  their  own  natural  juices ;  and  it  is  much  easier  to 
add  a  little  butter  than  to  take  away  grease.  Before 
putting  any  thing  to  broil,  the  gridiron  should  be  heated, 
and  its  bars  rubbed  with  dean  paper  or  a  dean  T9Lg. 
Grilled  meats  should  be  turned  frequently,  and  not  onoe 
only,  to  keep  the  gravy  inndey  and  not  send  it  on  one 
{the  upper)  side ;  nor  should  they  be  too  thick,  which 
would  prevent  their  being  done  quickly.  Fish  will  not 
bear  so  many  turnings ;  but  most  fish  are  broiled  with 
their  skin  on,  which  retains  their  juices — a  protection 
which  chops  and  steaks  have  not 

Bcilvng  would  be  a  comparatively  modem  operation, 
consequent  on  the  discovery  of  pottery  or  other  vessels 
that  will  stand  the  fire.  The  very  name  of  boiling 
implies  that  it  is  cookery  e£fected  by  immersion  in 
boiling  water ;  and  nothing,  at  first  sight,  could  appear 
to  be  simpler.  But  all  water  does  not  boil  at  the  same 
degree  of  heat ;  and  the  same  water  does  not  boil  at  the 
same  degree  of  heat  at  difierent  levels  above  the  sea 
or  the  plain.  Boiling  sea-water  is  hotter  than  boiliog 
river- water;  and  river-water,  boiling  at  the  top  of  Mont 
Blanc,  is  not  hot  enough  to  cook  a  potato.  But,  leaving 
out  of  consideration  uninhabited  portions  of  the  earth's 
surface,  meat  and  vegetables  take  longer  to  boil  up 
in  the  city  of  Mexico  than  they  would  do  down  at  Vera 
Cruz,  on  the  coast.  The  cook  will,  therefore,  at  once 
perceive  that  she  can  turn  Boiling  to  sundry  purposes, 
merely  by  boiling  gently  with  rain  or  river- water,  and 
by  boiling  fiercely  with  salt  and  water. 


BOnjKG,  BOABTUSQy  ETC.,  AND  THEIR  EFFECTS.       47 

Moreover,  the  substances  which  serve  as  our  food 
are  differentij  acted  upon  by  different  degrees  of  hot 
water.  Take,  as  an  easy  example,  an  egg.  Put  it  on 
die  fire  in  a  saucepan,  with  cold  water;  let  it  heat 
gradually  and  slowly;  and  you  will  find  that  the  yolk  is 
set  b^cre  the  white,  and  also  before  the  water  boils. 
The  white  becomes  fixed  soon  afterwards,  and  at  the 
temperature  of  scarcely  boiling  water.  You  will  there- 
fore employ  quite  a  moderate  degree  of  heat  for  sauces 
thickened  with  yolk  of  egg,  while  a  very  little  more 
heat  will  serve  for  dishes  composed  of  the  whites  and 
yolks  together.  You  understand  why,  if  baked  custards, 
rice-puddings,  and  the  like,  bail  in  their  baking  dish, 
they  are  ruined,  running  into  whey ;  why  boiled  custards 
and  creams  wntaining  eggs  should  be  done  in  a  batn- 
marie^  or  jar  immersed  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water ;  why 
an  omelette,  left  long  enough  in  the  pan  to  get  penetrated 
by  the  heat  of  the  butter  in  which  it  is  fried,  becomes 
leathery.  Hard  eggs,  for  salad  and  garnishing,  may 
boil  galloping  in  salt  and  water.  Eggs  boiled  in  the 
shell,  for  weak  digestions,  may  be  dropped  into  boiling 
rain-water,  set  on  the  side  of  the  stove  five  minutes,  and 
never  allowed  to  boil  again.  Quick  boiling  converts 
the  white  into  something  very  like  gutta-percha,  even 
though  the  yolk  is  not  yet  hard. 

In  setting  about  boiling,  the  cook  has  first  to  deter- 
mine whether  she  requires  the  juices  of  the  articles 
boiled  to  remain  in  them^  or  to  be  communicated  to  the 
water.  Fresh  vegetables  intended  to  be  served  alone, 
fish,  and  meat  which  appears  on  the  table  as  a  boil, 


48  OPERATIONS. 

should  be  tlirown  Into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt  in 
it,  to  harden  their  outer  cuticle,  set  the  albumine  (or 
substance  similar  to  white  of  egg)  they  contain,  and 
so  cause  them  to  retain  their  native  succulence,  instead 
of  letting  it  ooze  out  into  the  boilings.  For  the  contrary 
reason,  the  ingredients  of  soups  and  stews  are  to  be  set 
on  with  the  water  cold.  Salted  and  dried  meats  and 
fish,  which  it  is  required  should  swell  in  cooking,  must 
be  put  into  cold  water  (after  previous  steeping),  and 
boiled  very  slowly.  Dried  vegetables, — as  peas,  haricots, 
rice,  &c., — after  steeping  all  night  in  Boft  water  (which 
first  water  is  to  be  tlirown  out),  are  to  be  set  to  cook 
in  cold  soft  water.  The  best  water  for  this  purpose  is 
filtered  rain-water,  from  a  tolerably  clean  roof,  or  pure 
river-water,  which  has  stood  to  settle  twelve  hours: 
neither  easy  to  obtain  in  large  towns.  Hard  spring 
or  pump  water  (mostly  containing  salts  of  lime)  may 
be  soft;ened  by  putting  into  it  a  little  carbonate  of  soda, 
in  the  proportion  of  half  an  ounce  to  every  gallon  of 
water. 

Boiling  gives  little  trouble.  Careful  skimming,  soon 
after  the  pot  boils ;  attention  that  nothing  stick  to  the 
bottom,  and  so  give  a  bad  taste  of  burnt  to  the  whole ; 
watching  that  every  thing  is  covered  by  the  water  all 
the  while,  and  not  left  half-dry  by  evaporation;  and 
regulation  of  the  rate  of  boiling  required  for  that  par- 
ticular object, — are  the  essential  points.  Boiling  is  the 
only  way  of  cooking  many  vegetables.  To  keep  them 
green,  use  soft  water,  throw  them  in  when  it  boils,  and 
let  them  remain  uncovered  by  a  lid  till  done.     It  is. 


BOILING,  ROASTING,  ETC.,  AND  THEIB  EFFECTS,       49 

also,  an  economical  way  of  cooking  meat ;  for  if  the 
broth  be  not  wasted,  as  it  too  often  is,  nothing  is  wasted. 
In  Provence,  even  fish  boilings  are  careftiUy  saved,  for 
the  making  of  bouUlabatssey  and  other  fish-soups. 

Steaming  is,  in  point  of  fact,  boiling  in  the  heated 
vapour  of  water.  The  practice,  as  a  means  of  cooking, 
is  somewhat  local,  depending  on  tlie  appliances  at  hand 
and  the  particular  articles  of  food  required  to  be  so 
prepared.  In  Norfolk,  where  dumplings  are  a  staple 
item  of  the  popular  diet,  almost  every  body  has  a  steamer 
fixed  to  the  top  of  their  largest  saucepan.  Steamed 
dumplings  are  much  lighter,  drier,  and  more  inviting 
in  their  appearance  than  boiled.  Many  puddings,  and 
some  vegetables,  may  be  steamed  advantageously.  A 
steamed  leg  of  mutton  is  excellent;  tender,  full  of  gravy, 
and  hardly  by  a  possibility  over-done.  But  all  steamed 
things  take  much  longer  to  cook  than  boiled,  involving 
an  extra  consumption  of  fuel,  which  is  serious  in  some 
localities.  Steaming,  too,  is  not  only  slower  than  boiling, 
but  more  uncertain ;  if  the  water  supplying  the  steam 
ceases  to  boil  faat^  tlie  cooking  does  not  go  on  at  all. 
Dumplings  and  puddings  turn  heavj-,  and  meat  remains 
raw.  Steamed  meat  also  gives  no  broth ;  almost  all  the 
broth  remains  within  it ;  consequently,  when  it  is  done, 
it  is  delicate,  nutritious,  savoury,  and  easy  of  digestion  ; 
highly  recommendable,  in  short,  to  invalids  whose  cook 
lias  the  patience  to  bestow  hours  after  hours  upon  a  joint. 

Stewing^  another  modification  of  boiling,  is  especially 
open  to  the  observation,  ^Hhe  more  haste,  the  worse 
speed.''     It  is  an  eminently  economical  branch  of  cook- 

E 


50  OPERATIONS. 

ery,  Bj  it,  coarse  joints,  old  poultry,  hard  portions  of 
animals,  feet,  gizzards,  tendons,  and  even  bones,  are 
made  to  supply  savoury  and  v^holesome  nutriment. 
Time  and  slow  eooking  are  the  secret  of  success ;  if  a 
thing  cannot  be  stewed  tender  in  one  doing,  it  must  be 
done  in  two  or  three,  supplying  as  required,  from  time 
to  time,  the  moisture  absorbed  and  evaporated.  Yege- 
tables,  sweet  herbs,  and  spices,  have  thus  the  time  to 
yield  all  their  flavour,  from  the  longer  period  during 
which  they  are  subjected  to  heat ;  and  it  must  not  be 
forgotten  that  all  those  things  are  absolutely  medicinal 
in  their  effects  on  the  constitution,  as  well  as  stimu- 
lant to  the  appetite.  If  vegetables  generally  are  a 
specific  against  such  a  severe  disease  as  the  scmrvy,  it 
cannot  be  doubted  that  their  special  virtues  have  their 
influence  in  milder  ailments  and  on  the  general  health* 
The  old  faith  in  ^^  simples''  was  by  no  means  a  mistake  ; 
«d  for  persons  sufferLg  from  Ij  decided  form  of  Ul- 
ness,  the  best  simples  are  those  which  grow  in  the  kitchen- 
garden.  Even  when  medicine  derived  from  plants  is 
prescribed  for  a  patient,  culinary  vegetables  render 
useful  assistance,  which  is  all  the  more  pleasant  because 
it  is  unsuspected.  Stewing  enables  the  qualities  of 
vegetables  to  enter  the  system  in  the  easiest  way  possible, 
by  combining  them  with  the  fleshy  and  gelatinous 
substances  which  they  are  employed  to  season.  They  are 
thus  digested  and  assimilated  unconsciously;  whereas, 
under  another  form — ^that  of  salad,  for  instance— weak 
stomachs  could  not  digest  them  at  all.  Baw  lettuce  and 
endive,  uneooked  onions,  celery,  artichokes,  finocohio 


BOILINO,  BOASTING,  ETC.,  AND  THSIB  EFFECTS.       51 

(tabercnlons-rooted  fennel),  encambers,  chicoiy,  rad- 
ishes, tnmips,  are  all  eaten  with  relish  in  that  state  bj 
many  who  can,  and  bj  not  a  few  who  cannot,  digest 
ihem.  Stewed,  thej  possess  the  same  sanitary  virtnes, 
without  imposing  impossibilities  on  the  labouring  sto- 
mach, and,  consequently,  deranging  the  nerves  and  the 
brain.  Stewing,  like  soup-boiling,  is  begun  with  the 
water  cold.  When  it  boils,  skim  till  no  more  scum  rises ; 
after  which,  let  it  only  simmer.  Stewing  may  be  done 
in  various  vessels  (not  too  small),  thick  rather  than  thin 
in  substance,  with  a  cover  which  vnll  fit  eloselt/y  but  can 
be  easfly  removed  to  see  how  the  stew  is  going  on. 
Earthen  pots  stew  capitally,  because  they  are  long  about 
it.  '*  Sweating"  and  "  suffocating"  meat  are  expressive 
French  terms  for  stewing  it.  Iron  pots  allow  the  heap- 
ing of  fire  on  their  lid;  the  stew  then  approaches  to  a 
daube  or  braise.  Papin's  digester  (which,  by  means  of 
pressure,  obtains  a  higher  temperature  tiian  boiling  water, 
and  extracts  all  the  nutriment  out  of  bones)  is  really  an 
improved  stewpan. 

Frying  might  be  called  *'  boiling  in  fat  or  oil" — ^which 
are  synonymous  in  a  culinary  sense ;  for  fat  is  nothing 
but  oil  solidified,  and  oil  is  liquid  fat  or  grease — ^but  the 
conditions  are  so  exceedingly  different,  and  the  effects 
so  contrary,  that  ^^  boiling"  must  be  restricted  to  cooking 
with  water  at  the  highest  temperature  it  is  capable 
of  maintaining  unconfined.  It  has  been  stated  that 
different  waters  boil  at  different  temperatures.  The  same 
is  true  of  different  liquids,  through  a  still  wider  range 
of  heat.    You  can  thrust  your  finger  with  impunity  into 


52  -     OP£BATIOKS. 

boiling  spirit  of  wine ;  you  can  hardly  do  so  with  boiling 
water ;  while  boiling  oil  would  inflict  a  cruel  bum.  Boil- 
ing oil  or  fat  is  nearly  four  times  as  hot  as  boiling  water. 

Consequently^  articles  of  food  plunged  in  boiling  fat 
offer  very  opposite  results  to  what  they  do  in  boiling 
water.  In  the  latter,  they  are  softened  and  finally  dis- 
solved ;  they  become  either  boiled  meat  and  vegetables, 
or  are  reduced  to  the  condition  of  a  mess  of  pottage.  In 
boiling  fat,  on  the  contrary,  they  become  firm — ^at  first 
on  their  outside  only,  which  is  more  or  less  browned ; 
and  if  left  there  too  long,  are  burnt  to  a  cinder.  In  the 
first  case,  the  water  dissolves  and  incorporates  with  itself 
the  internal  juices  of  the  food  plunged  in  it  In  the 
second,  those  juices  remain  in  the  articles  fried,  because 
the  fat  is  incapable  of  dissolving  them.  If  they  ulti- 
mately become  dry  as  chips,  the  reason  is,  that  the  con- 
tinued heat  must  at  last  drive  off  all  moisture  in  the  state 
of  vapour. 

It  is  mere  economy — or,  in  truth,  niggardness — ^in 
tlie  use  of  fat,  which  makes  our  cooks  fiy  first  one  side  of 
a  chop  or  steak,  and  then  turn  it  to  fiy  the  other.  The 
best  frying  is  done  by  plunging  the  article  entirely  in 
boiling  fat  This  is  especially  the  case  with  vegetables 
and  fish.  How  often  do  we  see  firied  potatoes  and  soles, 
mere  slices  of  something  sodden  in  grease!  Bailing 
grease  does  not  enter  articles  plunged  into  it,  but  forms 
a  crust  on  their  surface  which  keeps  it  out  The  cook, 
therefore,  should  have  a  large  stock  of  fiying-fat,  which 
can  be  strained  and  poured  into  jars  when  the  frying  is 
done,  and  covered  to  keep  out  the  dust,  reserving  each 


BOILING,  BO^STINO,  STC,  AND  THSIB  EFFECTS.       53 

sort  for  its  special  purpose :  meat-fat  for  meat,  fish-fiit 
for  fish,  yegetable-&t  for  vegetables,  as  potatoes,  sliced 
turnip,  split  cucumbers,  small  vegetable-marrows.  A 
well-stored  kitchen  should  have  another  pot  of  fat  re- 
served for  sweets,  as  apple  or  peach  fritters,  sweet 
omelettes,  &c. 

The  causes  of  fiulnre  in  fiying  are :  Ist,  an  insufficient 
quantity  of  fat  in  the  pan ;  2d,  putting  in  things  to  fiy 
before  it  is  hot  enough ;  3d,  too  much  moisture  adhering 
to  the  sur&ce  of  things  to  be  fiied. 

Vegetables  and  fish  should  be  carefully  wiped  dry 
before  frying;  the  latter  may  be  rubbed  with  flour; 
chops   and   cutlets   may  be   smeared   with   egg,   and 
dusted  all  over  with  bread-crumbs  or  grated  biscuit 
The  grand  point  is  to  get  the  boiling  fat  to  seize  the 
article  fried,  ue.  to  form  a  brown  crust  all  over  its 
surface  at  the  very  instant  of  immersion.     Tlie  seizing 
cannot  take  place  unless  the  fat  has  been  over  a  sharp 
fire  a  sufficient  time ;  when  once  the  seizing  is  properly 
effected,  the  pan  may  be  raised  or  withdrawn  a  little,  to 
let  the  article  cook  through  without  burning  outside. 
That  the  fat  is  hot  enough  may  be  ascertained  by  trying 
it  with  a  piece  of  crumb  of  bread  thrown  in  for  five  or 
six  seconds.     If  it  comes  out  crisp  and  brown,  you  may 
commence  your  operations  at  once.     Well-fried  things 
are  not  greasy ;  they  are  agreeable  to  the  eye,  the  palate, 
and  the  stomach :  while  badly  fried  things  are  the  very 
reverse.    A  well-fried  sole  will  hardly  soil  the  napkin 
on  which  it  is  laid. 

Flying  in  this  style  affords  great  resources  for  the 


54     •  OPERiLTION& 

table.  It  allows  yesterday's  leavings  to  reappear  In  quite 
a  novel  form,  and  helps  you  out  of  the  difficulty  of  an 
unexpected  arrival;  for  it  takes  no  longer  to  firy  thus 
a  four-pound  fish  than  to  boil  an  egg.  When  the  &t 
is  once  at  seizing  point  the  thing  is  done.  A  famous 
epicure,  Brillat  Savarin,  once  had  a  pan  made  (which 
he  christened  an  enfer)  big  enough  to  fry  in  this  way  a 
very  large  turbot 

The  kind  of  fat  used  must  depend  on  local  circum- 
stances ;  whatever  it  is,  it  must  be  the  very  best  of  its 
kind.  Good  olive-oil  is  delicate;  so  is  good  butter; 
first-rate  and  sweet  pork-lard  is  not  to  be  despised; 
beef  and  veal  melted  suet  will  render  service  for  many 
'  things. 

The  frying-pans  commonly  sold  are  much  too  shallow, 
being  only  just  deep  enough  to  fry  eggs,  or  cutlets,  and 
flat-fish,  by  turning  them  over.  Every  kitchen  should 
possess  a  frying-pan  not  less  than  six  inches  deep,  oval, 
not  round,  and  long  enough  to  accommodate  a  respect- 
able-sized fisL 

Sautding  resembles  what  is  erroneously  called  fiying, 
only  it  is  not  done  in  a  frying-pan,  but  in  a  deep  (often 
an  earthen)  pan,  into  which  a  moderate  quantity  of 
butter  or  fat  is  put  When  this  is  hot,  the  article  to  be 
cooked  is  shaken  about  in  it,  tossed,  and  turned,  until 
properly  done.  As  in  frying,  the  heat  of  the  fat  is  an 
essential  point ;  the  cook  never  leaves  the  article  to  itself 
a  second.  Things  larger  than  a  duck  are  seldom  saut^ : 
sauted  potatoes  are  general  favourites.  Omelettes  and 
pancakes  are  really  sauted,  so  are  chops  and  steaks  in 


BOILING,  BOASTING,  ETC*,  AND  THSQt  KETSCTB,       Si 

general ;  wliile  beignets  and  fritters  should  be  fried.  In 
aautfing,  as  in  frying,  the  great  danger  to  be  avoided 
is  over-doing  the  artiele,  partieularly  if  it  is  onlj  a 
preliminary  in  the  cooking  of  a  dish.  It  may  be  per- 
formed very  well  in  an  ordinary  shallow  saneepan.  The 
term  is  derived  from  the  French  sauter^  to  jump,  or /aire 
tauter  J  to  make  jump,  to  toss*  Things  commonly  sant&l 
are  yonng  fowls,  small  game,  larger  poultry  or  game  in 
joints,  meat  in  dice  or  small  pieces,  kidneys,  sweet- 
breads, small  potatoes  whole  or  large  ones  sliced,  por- 
tions offish,  chops,  cutlets,  and  the  like. 


56  UTENSILS. 


in. 
UTENSILS. 

KITCHEN  REQUISITES,  AND  THEIR  EMPLOYMENT. 

When  a  cook  arrives  at  a  new  place,  it  is  only  fair 
that  she  should  find  ready  to  her  hand  every  implement 
and  convenience  necessary  for  the  proper  exercise  of  her 
art,  or  at  least  for  the  preparation  of  the  class  of  dishes 
which  her  employers  are  likely  to  require  of  her.  As 
in  other  arts,  a  handy  person  will  effect  a  good  deal  witli 
few  appliances.  Still,  there  must  be  a  mrfficiency  of 
utensils.  Tlie  following  list,  therefore  (which  might  be 
enlarged),  is  given,  not  to  tell  housekeepers  that  they 
must  at  once  purchase  every  article  which  it  contains, 
but  ratlier  as  a  remembrancer  of  what  they  may  want, 
and  what  they  think  their  own  cook  ought  to  have  at 
command  in  order  to  sen^e  their  meals  to  their  satisfac- 
tion. If  they  have  to  complain  of  an  ill-dressed  dinner, 
they  would  not  wish  her  to  be  in  a  position  to  reply, 
"  Sir  (or  Ma'am),  I  could  do  no  better,  because  I  had 
not  the  things  to  do  it  with." 

But  while  the  kitchen  battery  ought  to  be  fully 
adequate  to  carry  on  the  culinary  campaign,  tlie  pur- 
chase' of  a  superfluity  of  utensils  is  a  great  mistake, 
and  that  not  so  much  on  account  of  the  expense  of  the 
outlay,  as  of  the  time  and  labour  wasted  in  keeping  them 
bright  and  clean.     And  yet  many  cooks,   and  even 


KITCHEN  BEQUISITES,  AKD  THEIR  EMPLOYMENT.      57 

mistresses,  like  to  hare  more  than  is  wanted  for  mere 
parposes  of  adornment,  '^to  make  their  kitchen  smarf 
I  myself  possess  an  immense  copper  fish-kettle,  toith  the 
bottom  kept  bright  for  sJtoWj  which  has  been  used  once, 
I  think,  bnt  am  not  sore,  in  the  coarse  of  the  last  dozen 
jears.  This  is  a  folly  similar  to  tliat  of  Dutchmen  and 
others,  who  build  houses,  not  to  be  lived  in,  but  to  be 
scrubbed,  scoured,  painted,  dusted,  and  then  kept  care- 
fully closed.  ^^  Pray  don't  order  so  and  so  of  the  fish- 
monger, the  butcher,  or  the  poulterer ;  we  could  only 
cook  them  in  such  or  such  vessels :  they  are  clean,  and 
we  cannot  have  them  dirtied,"  is  a  request  which  is 
contrary  to  common  sense.  J£  the  vessels  are  not  to  be 
used,  they  may  as  well  be  sold  for  old  iron  or  copper. 
In  running  through  our  list,  therefore,  the  householder 
will  tick  off  what  is  absolutely  wanted  in  his  establish- 
ment, and  no  more. 

Jacky  for  roasting.  A  Bottle- Jacky  with  its  reflector, 
answers  well  for  moderate-sized  families.  If  it  be  a 
clockwork  jack,  with  horizontal  spit,  let  it  be  a  Cradle 
Spit.     A  spit  thrust  through  a  joint  spoils  it. 

Dutch  or  American  Overij  for  doing  small  things 
before  the  fire. 

Toastinff»fork. 

Gridirons  of  various  sizes  and  contrivances.  Tlie 
gridiron  with  channelled  bars  receives  the  gravy  in  a 
little  trough.  The  double  gridiron  holds  a  steak  between 
it ;  the  gridiron  is  turned  and  the  steak  with  it,  which 
therefore  is  not  pricked  by  a  fork.  This  is  also  avoided 
by  using  a  pair  of  steak-tongs. 


58  UTENSILS. 

Salanumder^  for  browning  mashed  potatoes,  mac- 
oaroni,  calf's  head,  or  ham  covered  with  bread-crumbs. 
Greatly  improves  the  appearance  of  manj  dishes,  and 
j;ives  a  style. 

Ghuffre  Irony  for  making  gaaffres  and  wafers.  Bather 
a  fancy  article;  good  to  amuse  young  people  on  a 
winter's  day  when  they  cannot  get  out 

Deep  aval  Frying-^pan^  large  enough  to  hold  a  good- 
sized  sole,  and  allowing  things  to  be  plunged  in  the 
hot  fat. 

Smaller  and  sJuxUower  Ftying-pany  for  doing  chops, 
Iddneys,  eggs,  &c 

Ifut'-craekerSf  for  preparing. blanched  almonds,  wal- 
nuts, filberts,  &c. 

Lobster^crackers.  Magnified  nut-crackers,  for  break- 
ing the  shells  of  the  claws  of  crabs  and  lobsters. 

Lemon-squeezer*  The  same,  on  still  a  larger  scale, 
made  of  wood,  for  squeezing  the  juice  of  lemons  and 
•oranges. — ^N.B.  Never  squeeze  a  lemon  or  orange  directly 
into  the  dish  you  are  preparing,  but  into  a  cup.  Pips 
(perhaps  decayed),  bits  of  peel  or  pulp,  might  fall  in, 
and  communicate  a  flavour  you  do  not  wish  for. 

Large  Grater j  for  bread,  cheese,  &c  ;  emaller  one^ 
for  spice. 

Large  Tin  Boiler^  with  Caver^  for  soup,  boiled  pud- 
dings, apple-dumplings,  &c.  Two,  or  even  three,  of 
these  will  often  be  convenient  to  have. 

Large  J  deep  Tin  Saucepan^  with  a  close-fitting  Steamer 
on  the  top.  When  the  steamer  is  not  wanted,  its  lid 
serves  as  the  saucepan-lid. 


KITCHEN  REQUISITES,  AND  THSIB  XMPLOYHENT.      59 

Shallaw  Saucqpanj  for  sant^Ing  (or  tossing)  or  boiling 
small  things. 

Stewpcokj  large  enough  to  hold  a  fowl  or  duck  with 
accompanying  vegetables,  with  close-fitting  cover,  which 
maj  be  flat  with  a  rim,  or  hollow,  to  hold  live  charcoal. 

Several  smaR  Saucepans^  for  melted  butter,  gravies, 
sauces,  and  the  like. 

EarUien  PanSj  for  saut^ing  potatoes  and  other  small 
things,  as  teal  and  widgeon,  omelettes,  &g. 

Earthen  Potj  with  well-fitting  cover,  for  simmering, 
at  the  side  of  the  stove,  beef-tea,  chicken  broth,  and 
flo  on. 

Meat  Saw^  Chopper  j  and  Block. 

Bainrmariej  or  HoUwater  Baihj  a  stewpan  with  a 
double  bottom,  containing  water  between  the  fire  and  the 
inner  bottom.  Its  use  is  to  stew  things  gently,  without 
the  possibility  of  their  burning ;  to  warm  up  cold  dishes; 
and  to  keep  things  hot  for  travellers,  sportsmen,  and 
professional  people,  whose  hour  of  dining  is  uncertain. 
Turtle,  ox-tail,  and  such-like  soups,  when  once  made, 
should  always  be  heated  up  again  in  a  bain-marie,  which 
not  only  saves  the  meat,  &c  from  sticking  to  the  bottom, 
but  preserves  the  delicacy  of  the  flavour.  A  common 
carpenters*  glue-pot  is  a  familiar  instance  of  a  bain- 
marie.  Small  quantities  of  sauce  may  be  warmed  in  a 
basin  which  takes  the  place  of  the  lid  on  a  tea-kettle. 

Moulds  for  cakes,  jellies,  and  meat-cheeses;  Pattys 
panSy  Puddinff'bannsj  Pie-dishes;  eartlien  Paii-^isliesy 
with  lidsy  for  hare  pat^,  goose-pie,  &c,  and  also  for  fish, 
to  stand  the  heat  of  an  oven. 


60  UTENSILS. 

FUmr^dredffery  for  dredging  flour  over  roasting  meats 
to  brown  them,  and  into  stews  and  sauces  to  thicken 
them. 

Scales  and  Weights^  to  proportion  the  quantities  of 
ingredients  used,  and  to  verify  the  weight  of  goods 
received  into  the  house. 

A  large^  diamond^ahaped  Fish-kettle^  for  turbot  and 
brill,  and  a  smaller  oval  one^  long  enough  to  hold  full- 
sized  mackerel  or  a  cod's  head  and  shoulders.  This 
last  will  be  found  very  useful. 

Fish  Slices  (for  frying),  Skimmers y  Spatulas^  Ladles ^ 
Iron  and  Wooden  Spoons, 

Ctdlendersy  StrainerSy  SieveSy  for  soups,  sauces,  boiled 
vegetables,  decoctions,  &c. 

Wliisk  (made  of  tinned  iron  wire  or  of  osier  twigs), 
for  whipping  creams,  syllabubs,  omelette  souffle,  Ac 

Stamps  of  various  shapes,  for  cutting  out  cakes,  puff- 
paste,  tartlets,  &c.  Circular  things  may  be  cut  out 
perfectly  with  a  wine-glass,  a  beer-glass,  or  a  small 
saucepan-lid. 

A  wooden  Itolltnff'pin.  Glass  rolUnff-pins  are  made, 
whose  only  fault  is  their  fragility.  In  ease  of  need,  a 
glass  bottle  will  serve  a  turn. 

A  Larding-pin  or  Larding  fieedky  for  introducing 
strips  of  bacon  into  veal,  the  breasts  of  fowl,  cairs 
liver,  &c. 

A  whiie-wood  Boardy  about  twenty  inches  or  two 
feet  square,  on  which  to  chop  vegetables,  cooked  or 
uncooked,  meat,  suet,  sweet  herbs,  &o.  Two,  or  even 
three,  such  boards  will  not  bo  too  many  to  have.     They 


KITCHEN  REQUISITES,  AND  THEIR  EMPLOYMENT.      61 

are  both  neater  and  more  convenient  than  the  surface 
of  a  deal  table,  often  used  for  that  purpose. 

Plate 'Tacky  for  draining  plates  and  dishes  when 
washed.  Plate -toarmery  during  the  summer  months: 
in  winter,  its  place  is  in  the  dining*room. 

Gaslighty  a  little  way  up  the  chimnej,  to  enable 
the  cook  to  see  her  work. 

Oyster^hnifej  and  the  skill  to  use  it  Great  is  the 
consternation  in  a  country  house,  when  a  barrel  of 
natives  is  announced,  and  nobody  knows  how  to  open 
ibem.  They  are  obliged  to  be  cracked  like  filberts,  or 
pounded  like  Brazil  nuts.  The  particular  kind  of  oyster- 
knife  employed  is  a  matter  of  individual  habit  and 
custom.  The  writer  employs  an  old,  well-worn,  stiff, 
sharp-pointed  dinner-knife,  and  is  not  alarmed  at  the 
sight  of  a  barrel  from  Colchester,  nor  of  two.  There 
are  machines  for  opening  oysters ;  but,  not  having  tried 
them,  it  would  be  unfair  to  express  an  opinion  of  their 
merits. 

A  good  roomy  Meai-'Safej  with  movable  Meat-^hoohs 
and  wire-gauze  door  and  sides,  hanging  in  the  shade, 
in  a  current  of  air. 

Wire  Salad-basketj  to  swing  salad  in,  afler  it  is 
picked  and  washed,  in  order  to  deprive  it  of  superfluous 
moisture. 

Large  LaJteh'-pan  or  Drippinff-pariy  to  go  under  large 
joints  while  roasting :  smaller  one  for  poultry  and  small 
things. 

Wire  Standy  with  three  or  four  feet,  to  support 
baked  meats  in  their  dish  in  the  oven  (thus  rendering 


62  XJTSNSILS. 

them  easier  to  baste),  as  well  as  to  raise  them  a  little 
above  baked  potatoes,  Torkshire-pudding,  and  Toad-in- 
a-hole. 

Iron  SkewerSf  for  trussing  meat  and  poultry  previous 
to  cooking.  —  N.B.  Bemember  not  to  serve  them  with 
the  joint  unless  you  wish  to  puzzle  the  carver. 

Punches^  for  cutting  carrots,  turnips,  beetroots,  ^., 
into  small  ornamental  shapes  for  garnishing,  or  for 
appearing  thoroughly  cooked,  in  soups  and  ragotlts. 

Moulds^  Stamps^  Boilers^  or  Scrapersy  for  making 
decorative  pats  of  butter. 

Flannel  Jelh/'-hag. 

Sugar^siftery  for  dusting  pounded  white  sugar  over 
tarts,  custards,  puddings,  sweet  omelettes,  &c.  In  some* 
cases  (in  the  latter,  for  instance)  an  additional  charm 
may  be  given  to  a  sugared  dish  by  placing  it  a  few 
seconds  under  a  bright  salamander,  which  converts  a. 
portion  of  the  dust  sugar  into  barley-sugar. 

Marble  Slab,  for  making  pastry,  rolling  and  mould- 
ing butter,  and  other  operations  which  require  coolness. 

Marble  Pestle  and  Mortar^  for  pounding  spice  and 
sugar,  making  potted  meats,  and  the  like. 

A  Stock-poty  to  be  kept  always  sinmiering,  to  receive 
trinunings  of  meat,  bones,  remnants  of  fowl  or  game, 
Ac. — in  short,  to  be  a  save-all  for  the  conversion  of 
worthless  scraps  into  wholesome  nutriment.  Whether 
flavoured  with  vegetables  or  not,  the  contents  of  th& 
stock-pot  will  prove  invaluable,  both  to  furnish  occasional 
basins  of  soup,  and  to  assist  in  compounding  all  sorts- 
of  made  dishes,  where  something  better  to  moisten  them 


KITCHXN  REQUISITBSy  AlH)  THEIR  ED(PLOYM£NT.      6& 

than  mere  water  is  required.  For  families  who  take 
soup  every  daj  (during  winter^  at  least)  the  stock-pot, 
property  managed,  majr  be  made  an  inexhaustible  foun* 
tain  of  soup.  GkKxl  stock  lends  itself  to  almost  every 
flavour  and  aspect.  K  the  odds  and  ends  of  the  kitchen 
do  not  supply  enough  material,  a  few  coarse  fresh  bits- 
of  meat  from  the  butcher  will  easily  make  up  for  the 
deficiency. 

The  Stock-pot  naturally  leads  us  to  the  next  Chapter^ 
Elehemts. 


64:  ELEMEKTS. 


IV. 

ELEMENTS. 

FIRST  MATERIALS  AND  COMBINATIONS,  ON  WHICH  ALL 
COOKERY  IS  BASED;  WITH  IHNTS  FOR  THEIR  PRE- 
PARATION AND  USE. 

"  Broth,"  says  Ude,  "  is  the  Foundation  of  Cookerj." 

"  Cookery,"  would  say  many  English  professors, 
"  rests  mainly  on  a  basis  of  Melted  Butter." 

"  The  first  Element  of  Made  Dishes,"  others  might 
suggest,  ^^  is  a  good  Roxix^  as  the  French  call  it,  or 
Flour  browned  in  Butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  Stewpan." 

All  w^hich  maxims  are  true  to  this  extent,  that  if 
either  of  the  articles  to  which  they  relate  is  bad,  not  only 
is  the  resulting  Cookery  bad,  but,  what  is  worse,  un- 
wholesome. 

That  admission  made,  it  is  needless  to  inquire  fur- 
ther what  is  the  primary  cosmic  element  (if  any)  of 
which  all  dishes  are  made  up  and  compounded.  The 
above-named  three  elements  will  have  due  consideration 
in  their  proper  places.  We  now  enumerate  sundry 
articles  which  the  cook  will  require  to  have  at  hand, 
ready  for  u$e  at  a  minute's  warning.  Most  Made  Dishes 
especially  are  only  happy  combinations  of  certain  simpler 
preparations.  A  great  culinary  point,  therefore,  is  to 
know  how  to  prepare  those  properly,  and  to  keep  them 
in  attendance  in  a  serviceable  state. 

The  Bunch  of  Sweet  Herbe^  or  Bouquet^  as  we  will 


ELEMENTS  65 

call  it  for  shorbiesSy  serves  to  flavour  soups^  stews^ 
hashes^  and  gravies.  It  is  thrown  into  them,  tied 
together  with  thread,  at  the  beginning  of  their  prepa-» 
ration,  and  is  taken  out  before  serving.  The  bouquet, 
prepared,  may  be  kept  fresh  in  a  glass  of  water  until 
the  moment  of  throwing  it  into  the  hot  liquid.  It 
is  often  the  bouquet  which  (combined  sometimes  with 
wine  or  other  sauce)  confers  their  peculiar  delicacy  on 
certain  dishes — to  Mock-Turtle,  for  instance,  Tite  de 
Veau  a  la  Tortve,  hashed  Calf's  Head,  &c.  The  bou- 
quet  also  exercises  a  stimulating  and  medicinal  effect 
on  the  digestion. 

The  foUowing  sweet  herbs  may  enter  (in  different 
combinations  and  proportions,  according  to  the  dish  they 
are  to  flavour)  into  the  composition  of  the  bouquet: 
parsley ;  chervil ;  celery,  the  blanched  stalks ;  celery, 
the  green  leaf  (when  celery  is  not  to  be  had,  a  salt- 
spoonfiil  of  the  seedy  slightly  crushed,  will  communicate 
the  same  flavour) ;  chives  (unnecessary  when  onions  in 
auy  form  are  added);  bay-leaves;  common  garden 
thyme ;  wild  thyme ;  lemon  thyme ;  sage ;  knotted  mar- 
joram, otherwise  called  pot  maijoram,  because,  being  a 
native  of  the  South  of  Europe,  it  is  often  grown  in  pots 
during  winter;  sweet  basil,  a  tender  annual  of  very  deli- 
cate aroma. 

For  those  who  like  it,  a  bunch  of  spearmint  is  boiled 
with  green  peas.  So  prepared,  they  accord  well  with 
roast  mutton,  pork,  veal,  duck,  goose,  and  wild  fowl, 
but  not  with  beef  or  chicken.  The  objection  to  mint 
with  peas,  especially  if  they  are  to  be  eaten  alone  or  as 

r 


66  SLEMENTS. 

a  dishy  isy  that  it  overpowers  their  natural  flavour ;  its 
recommendation  is^  that  it  stimulates  the  digestion  of 
what  is  a  rather  heavy  vegetable,  espeoiallj  if  often  eaten. 

The  French  in  like  manner  boil  a  bunch  of  sar^ 
rietUy  summer  savory  (^Satureja  hortensis^  an  annual 
species,  quite  different  from  the  common  winter  savoiy, 
which  is  a  perennial  imder-shrub),  with  broad  beans; 
and  i^  is  a  great  improvement. 

Some  boil  a  bunch  of  fennel  with  mackarel,  and  also 
with  salmon.  Fennel-sauce  may  be  made  either  with 
fennel  so  boiled,  or  with  fresh-chopped  uncooked  fennel. 
The  former  will  be  more  digestible,  the  latter  of  a  brighter 
colour. 

Sage-leaf  Powder.  Dry  sage-leaves  very  slowly 
before  the  fire  or  in  an  oven,  so  as  to  retain  their  pecu- 
liar gray-green  hue.  Then,  while  crisp,  rub  them  be- 
tween the  hands  as  finely  as  possible.  Serve  on  a  plate 
with  a  spoon  in  it  (or  in  a  neat  dredger,  like  a  large- 
holed  pepper-box)  for  each  guest  to  sprinkle  in  pea  and 
other  soup.  Sage-powder  is  also  used  to  dust  over 
roast  pork  just  before  serving,  or  to  decorate  the  outside 
of  hams,  &c. 

Parsley  Powder^  made  in  the  same  way,  is  em- 
ployed for  like  purposes,  and  to  improve  boiled  leg  of 
pork,  both  in   outward    appearance    and    in  flavour. 
Chervil,  Marjoram,   Thyme,  and  BasH  Powders,  will 
vary  the  above. 

They  may  all  be  kept  in  small  wide-mouthed  bottles^ 
(set  in  front  of  the  fire  before  putting  in  the  powder)^ 
well  stopped,  in  a  very  dry  closet. 


BLEHSNT8.  67 

(M>e8  are  kept  in  pidde,  in  jars.  When  a  dish  oon- 
taining  olives  is  to  be  served  in  the  course  of  the  day, 
pare  as  manj  as  are  wanted  (as  thick  as  possible,  and 
all  in  one  piece,  leaving  nothing  bnt  the  bare  kernel  to 
be  rejected),  and  retnm  them  immediately  to  the  pickle 
until  the  moment  comes  to  add  them  to  the  sauce  or  the 
ragoUt     So  they  will  neither  get  diy  nor  discoloured. 

When  Sorae^radish  is  likely  to  be  wanted,  either 
BB  a  garnishing  (for  roast  beef,  beef-steaks,  boiled  cod, 
or  other  fish)  or  as  a  condiment  (a  pinch  to  be  dropped 
into  oyster  sauce),  have  a  sMck  ready  on  a  handy  shelf, 
to  be  scraped  a  few  minutes  before  made  use  of.  Old 
scraped  horse-radish  looks  like  paper  shavings,  and  has 
lost  the  best  part  of  its  volatile  aroma.  The  perfome 
has  greatly  evaporated,  although  the  pungency  re- 
mains. 

Butter  of  Gcxrlicy  or  Ayoli^  much  used  in  Provence 
and  the  South  of  France,  and  convenient  in  establish- 
ments where  garlic  is  admitted.  Pound  a  few  cloves 
of  garlic  in  a  mortar,  gradually  adding  olive-oil,  until 
ibe  whole  is  reduced  to  the  consistency  of  a  paste. 

Oarlie  Winey  Garlic  Vinegar ^  or  Essence  of  Garlic. 
'^  I  am  an  advocate  for  a  small  twang  of  garlic  in 
sausages  and  many  other  savories ;  which  is  admirably 
given  by  always  keeping  a  bottle  half-filled  with  cloves 
of  garlic,  covered  with  white  wine  or  vinegar.  The 
former  is  best  for  many  things,  when  a  few  drops  even 
will  often  give  a  wonderfiil  finish  to  any  dish." — CoeUbs 
in  Search  of  a  Cook. 

Fried  Omans^  of  a  nice  light  brown,  well  drained 


68  ELEMENTS. 

from  their  grease,  held  in  reserve  cold  on  a  plate,  are 
often  usefiil  to  throw  into  a  hash  or  stew. 

Burnt  Onions  or  Bhek-onion  Balls  (to  be  bought 
of  every  good  grocer  or  Italian  warehouse),  kept  in  wide- 
monthed  bottles,  are  indispensable  on  the  8auce-8hel£ 
They  supply  a  savory,  sightly,  and  wholesome  means 
of  browning  a  great  variety  of  dishes. 

Browning  (of  another  kind).  ^^  This  most  useful  article 
for  soups  and  seasoned  dishes  is,  I  think,  preferable  to 
the  French  Roux^  or  browned  flour."  (The  Doctor,  who 
is  not  bigoted,  allows  others  to  express  their  opinions 
freely.)  "  Powder  finely  four  ounces  of  loaf-sugar ;  put 
it  in  a  clean  iron  frying-pan,  with  one  ounce  of  butter. 
Set  it  over  the  fire;  mix  it  well  together;  when  it 
begins  to  be  frothy,  hold  it  off  the  fire.  Have  ready  a 
pint  of  red  wine.  When  the  sugar  and  butter  is  of  a 
deep  brown,  pour  in  a  little,  then  add  more,  and  keep 
stirring  it.  Put  to  it  half  an  ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper, 
six  cloves,  two  blades  of  mace,  four  shallots,  and  a 
little  salt.  Boil  it  slowly  for  ten  minutes ;  when  cold, 
take  off  the  scum,  and  bottle  it  for  use.  It  keeps  a 
long  time.  Great  care  should  he  taken,  in  making  this,  not 
to  let  it  hum  too  much,  as  it  spoils  tlie  flavour.  A  simpler 
kind  may  be  made,  only  using  water  and  no  spice ;  but 
it  does  not  keep  so  well." — Coeld>s  in  Search  of  a  Cook. 

This  browning,  in  fact,  is  based  on  caramel  or  burnt 
sugar  (the  substance  employed  to  colour  brandies),  which 
is  often  more  agreeable  to  the  eye  than  to  the  palate. 
Indeed,  the  flavour  of  caramel  is  not  agreeable,  although 
it  may  be  covered  by  other  condiments. 


JSLEKKSTB.  69 

Button  Mushrooms^  firom  the  meadow  or  the  pasture- 
gronnd,  intended  for  sauces  and  ragouts,  after  being 
carefully  wiped,  may  be  boiled  ten  minutes  in  stock, 
taken  out,  and  drained.  They  will  then  be  ready  for 
immediate  use,  only  requiring  warming  up  in  the  sauce. 
Pickled  button  mushrooms  are  employed,  as  taken  from 
the  bottle,  without  further  preparation.  Open  or  full- 
grown  mushrooms,  although  dressed  in  various  ways, 
may  be  advanced  a  step  by  peeling  off  carefully  the 
thin  skin  which  covers  then*  upper  surface,  and  shorten- 
ing ihe  stalk  to  a  proper  length. 

The  cook  who  exercises  forethought  in  these  and 
like  small  matters  will  be  able  to  send  up  her  dinner 
without  hitch  or  hindrance,  as  well  as  without  hurry. 
She  will  have  all  her  wits  about  her,  her  presence  of 
mind  complete.  Like  an  able  general  or  a  first-rate 
driver,  all  her  forces  will  be  under  her  control,  every 
port  of  her  team  well  in  hand.  She  will  not  have  to 
neglect  the  proper  conducting  of  one  division  because 
she  has  already  neglected  the  due  preparation  of  another. 
If  only  for  the  sake  of  her  own  comfort,  she  will  be  wise 
in  having  her  work  well  forward  beforehand.  Instead 
of  being  hot,  fussy,  and  feverish — which  gives  her  a 
capital  chance  of  spoiling  some  dish — she  wiU  be  calm, 
collected,  and  capable  of  contemplating  with  pride  the 
progress  of  each  item  of  the  bill  of  fare  as  it  gradually 
advances  to  perfection.  Having  things  ready  to  hand 
or  not  often  makes  the  difference  between  a  good  cook 
and  a  bad  one,  especially  with  regard  to  dishes  which, 
with  a  little  attention,  may  almost  be  said  to  cook  of 


70  '  BLKUENTB. 

themselves  when  once  they  are  properly  set  a-going. 
With  them  onoe  fairly  started,  the  provident  oook  can 
relax  her  efforts,  and  quietly  look  forward  to  a  satis- 
factoiy  result 

Oysters^  for  sattce  or  made  dUhes^  may  be  opened  at 
least  half  an  hour  beforehand  without  injury  to  their 
quality.  Bemove  their  beards  at  the  time.  Put  the 
oysters  with  their  liquor  into  one  cup,  and  the  beards 
into  another.  When  it  is  time  to  use  them,  it  will  be 
found  that  the  beards  have  yielded  a  certain  amount 
of  liquor,  which  may  be  added  to  that  already  with  the 
oysters. 

Oysters,  to  be  eaten  in  their  natural  state,  should 
not  be  opened  tUl  tlie  very  last  minute.  At  that  most 
important  nick  of  time  (with  a  dinner  at  least,  if  not  of 
a  supper)  it  is  not  fair  to  require  that  task  to  be  per- 
formed by  tlie  cooL  She  has  other  things  to  attend  to, 
and  ought  to  have  assistance  to  open  the  oysters,  even 
if  from  the  master  of  the  house  himself. 

The  Saucesy  Pickles,  Spices,  Essences  of  Shrimpy  An," 
chjovy,  &C.,  required  to  flavour  the  dishes  of  that  day's 
dinner,  will  be  aU  within  reach,  almost  without  having 
to  set  a  step  to  fetch  them.  "The  same  of  grated  biscuit 
or  flour  for  frying  fish,  and  of  bread-crumbs,  with  the 
egg  or  batter  which  is  to  make  them  stick,  for  chops 
and  cutlets.  The  morning's  study  of  her  Bill  of  Fare 
will  be  the  Cook's  Bemembrancer  of  all  these  little  but 
not  trifling  details. 

Milk  has  often  to  be  boiled  when  the  cook's  atten- 
tion is  much  divided.     To  prevent  its  sticking  to  the 


jaSMKHTB^  71 

• 

bottom  and  bnming,  take  a  sauoepan  from  whose  inside 
eveiy  trace  or  vestige  of  grease  has  been  remoTod. 
Sinse  it  toeU  with  cold  water,  throw  out  the  water,  and 
do  not  wipe  the  inside  of  the  saucepan.  Put  in  your 
milk  immediately,  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  The  thin  film 
of  moisture  remaining  between  the  milk  and  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan — ^which  will  soon  become  a  film  of  steam 
or  vapour — ^wiU  prevent  the  milk  firom  sticking  at  the 
outset  and  burning.  It  toill  stick  and  bum  afterwards, 
if  not  taken  off  in  time.  This  mode  of  keeping  milk 
from  burning  might  be  made  the  subject  of  a  learned 
dissertation.  It  is  analogous  to  Professor  Tyndall's 
beantifiil  experiment  of  making  a  drop  of  water  two 
inches  in  diameter,  and  moulded  into  a  rosette  with  a 
pretty  crimped  border,  dance  rhytlimically  upon  vapour 
escaping  firom  its  own  under-surfaoe. 

In  composite  dishes,  stews,  &c.,  containing  a  varieiy 
of  articles, — such  as  small  onions,  turnips,  carrots,  mush- 
rooms, oysters,  sweetbreads,  cocks' -combs,  forcemeat 
balls,  —  some  will  take  longer  cooking  than  othersi 
Some  require  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour's  sharp 
boiling;  others  need  be  littie  more  than  well  wanned 
through.  If  fwt  prepared  beforehand,  they  must  take 
their  chance  as  to  the  time  they  can  be  allowed  to  cook ; 
i£  ready  preparedy  they  can  be  put  in  successively,  and 
each  cooked  for  its  proper  time ;  if  ready  cookedj  the 
cook  is  independent  of  their  peculiar  requirements,  and 
can  make  them  obedient  to  her  will  precisely  when  she 
wants  them.  How  often  have  sea-kale  and  asparagus 
^t  sodden  or  cold,  while  the  melted  butter  to  pour  over 


72  ELBMfizrrs. 

them  had  to  be  made,  and  the  toast  to  lay  them  on  had 
to  be  toasted  before  a  fire  that  wouldn't  bum  clear  I 

Cocks^-combs  (just  mentioned)  are  an  indispensable 
ingredient  in  Parisian  vcl'-au^vmts  and  other  dishes. 
When  you  have  them  (from  fowls  supplied  to  jour  lar- 
der), soak  them  several  hours  in  cold  water  to  bleach, 
boil  them  till  tender,  drain,  and  set  aside  for  use. 

When  you  have  them  not,  do  not  despair,  on  sup- 
posing that  your  Calf's  Head  Turtlewise  rmist  appear 
without  them.  It  need  not,  if  you  have  a  little  inge- 
nuify. 

Some  years  ago  it  was  calculated  that  not  less  than  five- 
and-twenty  or  thirty  thousand  chicken — and  the  num- 
ber has  been  enormously  increased  by  the  ftdler  develop- 
ment of  railways— entered  Paris  every  morning.  Ten 
thousand  of  these  appeared  on  the  tables  of  private 
families ;  the  other  fifteen  thousand  fell  into  the  hands 
of  restaurateurs,  pastrycooks,  rotisseurs,  and  their  col- 
leagues. But  from  all  those  fifteen  thousand  fowl  not 
more  than  twelve  thousand  cocks'-combs,  fit  to  figure  in 
ragoiits,  could  be  obtained ;  whilst  every  cockerel  served 
on  a  private  table  refused  to  yield  his  natural  ornament. 
Nevertheless,  go  where  you  would,  order  vol-^ai-vent  or 
Turded  Calf's  Head,  and  you  had  them,  containing  such 
a  liberal  sprinkling  of  cocks'-combs  as  to  show  that  the 
supply  was  inexhaustible.  How  was  that?  Nobody  knew 
—nobody  cared  to  know.  There  were  the  cocks'-combs 
— delicate,  tender,  unexceptionable.  Who  wanted  fur- 
ther information,  so  long  as  ignorance  was  bliss  ?  People 
of  an  inquiring  or  sceptical  turn  of  mind — ^until  the 


ELEMENTS.  73 

cat  (or  the  oock  Voomb)  was  let  out  of  the  bag — ^merely 
thought  of  the  loaves  and  the  fishes. 

A  philanthropist,  appropriately  called  Daddy  (by 
which  I  render  Phre)  Leeoq,  in  his  zeal  to  benefit  the 
hmnan  race,  made  a  pretty  little  income  by  inventing 
artificial  cocks'*combs. 

He  took  a  palate — beef,  mutton,  or  veal;  but  he 
greatly  preferred  the  beef.  After  a  good  scalding  in 
boiling  water,  he  let  it  steep  eight-and-forty  hours.  He 
then  detached  the  flesh  of  the  palatine  vault,  taking  care 
not  to  tear  or  break  it.  Then,  putting  his  palate  under 
a  punch  or  stamp  worked  with  a  lever,  he  coined  cocksy- 
combs  superior  to  Nature^s.  Connoisseurs,  taken  in  by 
Daddy  Lecoq^s  productions,  complacently  took  them  in 
themselves.  And  yet  there  is  an  easy  way  of  distin* 
guishing  one  from  the  other.  Nature's  cocks' -combs 
are  studded  on  both  sides  with  papUlce^  or  little  warts ; 
Lecoq's,  and  his  imitators',  on  only  one. 

Beef-palates  are  easy  to  be  had  in  London.  In 
default  of  them,  very  nice  cocks'-combs  can  be  stamped 
out  of  the  white  parts  of  a  cairs  pluck.  Any  black- 
smith will  make  you  the  punch,  if  you  only  furnish  him 
with  a  proper  pattern;  and  you  will  be  able  to  send 
up  cocks'- combs  at  will,  without  shaving  one  of  your 
lady's  cockerels.  If  half  the  world  does  not  know  how 
the  other  half  lives,  certainly  half  the  world  does  not 
know  what  the  other  half  eats. 

Fat  may  be  ofiien  substituted  for  butter,  not  only 
for  the  sake  of  economy,  but  with  an  actual  improve- 
ment of  flavour  in  many  savoury  dishes  and  some  sweet 


74  ELEMBNTS. 

ones.  Beef-fat  especiallj,  taken  in  cakes  from  the  top 
of  the  stock-pot  and  the  soup-boiler^  when  cold,  is  usefbl 
for  many  purposes — such  as  frying,  making  a  rcfua  for 
thickening,  or  the  beginning  of  a  ragoiit  Melted  down 
into  a  pot  and  covered,  it  will  keep  good  some  time. 
A  thrifty  housekeeper  will  never  allow  it  to  be  wasted* 

Cheese-CrusiSy  no  longer  presentable  at  the  close  of 
dinner,  may  be  grated,  and  so  handed  round  to  sprinkle 
in  soup,  or  to  be  used  in  a  dish  of  macaronL 

Stuffing^  A.  For  Veal  or  Turkey.  Grate  the  crumb 
of  stale  bread  into  a  bowl.  Add  to  it  salt,  pepper,  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  chopped 
very  fine,  some  beef  or  veal  suet  ditto,  some  parsley 
and  thyme  ditto,  with  the  juice  of  the  half-lemon.  Break 
in  one  or  more  eggs,  just  sufiicient  to  make  the  quantity, 
when  well  mixed,  into  a  stiff  paste,  which  will  bear 
handling  and  stuffing  into  the  fowl.  If  truffles  (sliced 
or  chopped)  or  mushrooms  are  added  to  the  stuffing, 
the  lemon-peel  may  be  omitted  or  not,  according  to 
taste.  By  stuffing  a  fowl  over-night  (which  may  be  done, 
except  in  the  hottest  weather)  and  trussing  it,  not  only 
can  it  be  put  to  the  fire  at  a  minute's  warning,  but  the 
flavour  of  the  stuffing  will  have  time  to  penetrate  the 
flesh.  Turkeys  are  truffied  days  before  they  are  wanted, 
in  order  to  absorb  as  much  of  the  aroma  as  possibla 

Sheriff  J  B.  For  Pike  and  otiicr  fish.  The  same  as 
Ay  omitting  the  lemon-peel,  and  adding  chopped  chervil 
and  fennel  to  the  other  herbs.  For  abstinence-days,  a 
lump  of  butter  must  be  substituted  for  the  beef-suet 

Stuffing^  C.     For  Boast  Hare  or  Babbit,  or  other 


XLEMKMTS.  75 

diy  meats.  The  same  as  A^  with  a  larger  proportion  of 
suet,  and  the  addition  of  sanaage-meat  or  bacon  chopped 
veiy  small. 

N.B.  Stuffings  are  often  made  to  contain  a  greater 
variefy  of  ingredients  than  are  mentioned  here.  The 
cook  may  exercise  her  judgment  by  using  also,  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  nature  of  the  object  she  is  stuffing, 
chopped  onions,  shallots,  garlic,  chives;  oysters  (scalded) ; 
livers  (boiled) ;  chestnuts  (boiled  or  roasted,  and  broken 
in  pieces);  hard  eggs  or  various  cold  meats  (minced); 
anchovies,  marjoram  and  sweet  basil,  lobster,  crawfish, 
shrimps,  cold  fish,  &c. 

They  are  aU  based  on  bread-crumbs  bound  together 
with  egg,  seasoned  and  flavoured  as  tastes  direct. 

Sti^ng  or  Forcemeat  Balls  may  be  rolled  to  the  size 
required,  and  laid  before  the  fire  in  a  Dutch  oven  to 
harden,  or  fried  a  light  brown  in  boiling  fat. 

BaUetj  for  frying  things  in.  Stir  water  or  milk 
gradually  into  a  little  flotur.  Add  a  little  olive-oil,  salt, 
and  brandy ;  beat  together,  as  if  for  an  omelette.  When 
you  are  about  to  begin  frying,  beat  an  egg  to  a  firoth, 
and  mix  well  with  the  above.  Dip  the  things  to  be 
fried  in  this,  so  that  their  surface  is  equally  and  well 
covered  with  the  batter.  For  frying  sweet  things,  as 
apple-fritters,  substitute  sugar  for  salt 

Marinadesy  Piddmg  or  Steeping  Mixtures^  are  much 
used  in  French  cookery,  to  give  flavour  to  insipid  meats, 
or  to  give  a  new  and  additional  flavour  to  those  that 
are  already  savoury  in  themselves.  Their  composition 
depends  much  on  the  cook's  ideas  and  habitual  practice. 


^ 


76  ELEMEKTS. 

Marinades  are  of  two  kinds,  unboiled  and  boiled,  or 
cooked  and  stewed.     As  examples,  we  give  the  receipts : 

Marinadey  A.  For  Rabbits.  Into  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity of  white  wine  put  parsley,  chives,  thyme,  bay-leaves, 
and  a  clove  of  garlic  chopped.  Cut  up  your  rabbit 
into  joints,  and  steep  them  in  this  mixture  for  at  least 
an  hour.  Then  dip  them  in  batter,  and  fiy  to  a  light 
brown.  Let  them  drain  half  a  minute,  and  serve  gar- 
nished with  fried  parsley. 

Marinadey  B.  Boiled.  For  Fried  Sheeps'  Trotters. 
Take  sliced  shallots,  carrots,  and  onions,  parsley,  three 
or  four  cloves,  thyme,  and  bay-leaves.  Fry  them  in 
butter,  without  letting  them  brown.  As  soon  as  they 
begin  to  brown,  moisten  with  half  water  and  half  vinegar. 
When  the  vegetables  are  done,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  strain  through  a  cullender  over  whatever  you 
wish  to  marinade. 

Prepare  Sheeps'  Trotters  as  directed  for  a  la  Pculette. 
After  steeping,  dip  them  in  batter,  and  fry  and  serve  as 
directed  for  Babbit 

Carp,  Tench,  Perch,  Pike,  and  other  fresh-water 
fish,  are  marinaded  the  same  way  as  Babbits. 

Marinade^  C.  To  give  mutton  or  beef  the  flavour  of 
roe-deer  or  venison.  Put  the  meat  in  a  deep  vessel. 
Throw  over  it  peeper  and  salt,  ^parsley,  sliced  onions, 
bay-leaves,  thyme,  allspice  or  cloves,  a  glass  of  vinegar, 
and  half  a  glass  of  water.  Let  it  steep  one  or  two 
days,  according  as  you  wish  it  to  be  high-flavoured, 
turning  it  frequently.  The  fillet  from  a  loin  of  beef  is 
a  favourite  piece  to  prepare  in  this  way.     When  suffi- 


ELEMENTS*  77 

ciently  marinaded,  it  is  roasted.     The  upper  part  of  the 
loin  makes  either  roast  or  stewed  beef. 

Court-BouiUotL     Flavoured  liquor^  for  bolliag  fish 
and  shell-fish  in.     Its  ingredients,  like  those  of  Mari- 
nades, vary.     Into  yonr  fish-kettle,  three-quarters  full 
of  water,  put  sliced  onions,  carrots,  parsley,  thyme,  bay- 
leaves,  mace,  cloves,  whole  pepper,  and  any  other  spice 
you  like,  salt,  a  wineglass  of  vinegar,  and  the  same  of 
wine.     When  it  has  boiled,  cook  your  fish  in  it.     Sauce 
served  with  the  fish  should  be  made  witli  this  liquor. 
The  same  court-bouillon  will  serve  many  times, — that 
is,  as  long  as  it  keeps  good ;  only,  each  time,  a  little 
wine  and  water  should  be  added,  to  prevent  its  becoming 
too  strong.     French  cooks  often  boil  shrimps,  prawns, 
crawfish,  and  lobsters  in  a  court-bouillon;  but  the  ar- 
ticles so  treated  lose  thereby  the  peculiar  delicacy  of 
their  natural  flavour:   they  also  disagree  with  many 
stomachs  which  digest  them  without  difiiculty  when 
boiled,  afi^er  the  English  fashion,  in  salt  water.     Take, 
as  an  example : 

Freshnwater  Crawfish^  done,  French  &shion,  in  Court- 
Bouillofu  At  the  bottom  of  a  large  stew-pan  put  slices 
of  carrots,  onions,  and  parsley-roots ;  parsley,  thyme, 
and  bay-leaves ;  a  few  cloves  and  whole  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  glass  of  vinegar.  Fill  up  with  water,  and  boil  well  an 
hour.     Strain  through  a  cullender. 

When  cool,  return  this  liquor  to  the  stew-pan,  and 
into  it  put  the  live  crawfish,  after  washing  them  in 
several  waters.  Take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  let 
them  boil  twenty  minutes.     When  done,  take  off  the. 


78  ELBlflENTS. 

fire,  and  let  them  remain  in  the  liquor  nntll  qnite  cold, 
in  order  to  be  more  thoronghlj  penetrated  with  its 
flavour.  This  same  Court-Bouillon  will  serve  repeatedly 
for  other  crawfish,  prawns,  or  lobsters. 

CarameL  Pounded  lump-sugar  browned  in  a  saucer 
pan  over  the  fire,  moistened  with  a  little  broth  or  water, 
and  stirred  with  a  fork  all  the  while.  Great  care  must 
be  taken  not  to  bum  it,  which  would  oommunioate  a 
bitter  and  unpleasant  taste.  When  suflScientlj  browned, 
it  may  be  stored  away  in  a  jar.  Its  use  is  to  smear  with 
a  feather  over  the  sur&oe  of  meats,  to  glaze  or  colour 
them,  and  also  to  make  sauces  look  richer  by  deepening 
their  brownness;  for  there  is  but  little  nutriment  in 
caramel,  the  sweetness  being  fried  out  of  it.  It  is  with 
caramel  that  brandies,  &c.  (white  when  they  issue  firom 
the  still),  are  made  to  assume  the  tinge  that  suits  the 
market 

It  is  clear  that  attention  to  the  preceding  points  will 
enable  the  cook  not  only  to  be  punctual,  but — ^what  is  of 
equal  importance  to  persons  of  delicate  health  and  mul«- 
titudinous  engagements — to  servo  a  hot  dinner  or  lunch- 
eon at  a  very  short  notice.  Professional  men  are  often 
obliged  to  snatch  their  meals  between  their  spells  of 
duiy ;  and  if,  tlirough  their  cook's  address,  they  can  take 
twenty  minutes'  repose  after  a  repast,  instead  of  having^ 
to  wait  twenty  minutes  longer  for  that  repast,  their  health 
will  be  incalculably  the  gainer ;  not  to  mention  the  addi- 
tional enjoyment  of  being  able  to  eat,  and  perhaps  con- 
verse, leisurely,  without  bolting  their  food  unmasticated 
and  almost  imtasted. 


HOBS  b'ceuybbs.  79 


V. 

HOBS  D'CEUVRES. 

WHETS,  KICKSHAWS,  SIDE-DISHES,  ETC., 

Abe  little  things  which  sometimes  take  the  place  of 
dishes,  sometimes  accompany  dishes,  sometimes  fill  up 
intervals  between  them,  and  sometimes  may  be  regarded 
as  simply  condiments.  The  time  of  their  consumption 
at  meals,  and  the  meals  at  which  they  appear,  vary 
according  to  local  usage.  Here,  they  are  more  frequent 
at  break&st  and  lunch  than  at  dinner ;  elsewhere,  they 
hegin  the  dinner,  or  are  interspersed  during  the  dinner : 
with  us,  their  favourite  place  is  at  the  dose  of  dinner. 
Thus,  we  make  a  true  hors  cToeuvre  of  cheese,  which, 
abroad,  belongs  to  the  dessert  One  of  Brlllat  Savarin's 
maxims  is :  ^^  A  dessert  without  cheese,  is  a  beauty  who 
has  lost  an  eye."  While  the  luxury  of  a  Scotch  break- 
&st  is  greatly  enhanced  by  the  number  and  variety  of 
its  Jiors  cTceuvreSj  in  England  they  often  constitute  the 
gems  of  a  supper-tray. 

Little  more  can  be  given  hero  than  a  list  of  some 
of  these  appetising  dishlets,  accompanied  by  a  few  short 
observations.  Amongst  them  are  Badishes,  Water-Cress, 
Gbrden-Cress,  Spring-Onions,  Olives,  Raw  Celerj",  and 
Baw  Finocchio. 


80  BOBS  d'ceuyres. 

Pickled  Vegetables,  as  Bed  Cabbage,  Gherkins,  Wal- 
nuts, Mangos,  Onions,  &c..  Sliced  Cucumber. 

Bologna,  Aries,  or  other  dried  Sausage ;  Sliced  Ham. 
and  Tongue ;  Butter. 

Cold  Oysters,  Hustled  Cockles  and  Mussels,  Prawns, 
Shrimps,  Fresh-water  Crawfish,  Periwinkles,  Whelks. 

Melon  all  over  France,  and  Fresh  Figs  in  the  south, 
are  eaten  as  hors  d^oeuvres.  Immediately  the  soup  and 
boiled  beef  are  removed,  a  fig  or  a  slice  of  melon  is  taken 
by  way  of  pastime,  to  fill  up  crevices.  The  invalid  will 
decline  them  tJien^  as  occupying  the  place  of  more  nu- 
tritious food. 

Preserved  Fruits ;  Jam,  Jelly,  Marmalade ;  Brandy 
Cherries ;  Honey. 

Salted  Anchovies,  or  Sardines;  Dutch  or  Salted 
Herring ;  Tunny,  Anchovies,  and  Sardines  in  oil ; 
Grrilled  Bed  Herring  or  Bloaters. 

Devilled  Bones  and  Biscuits  ;  Anchovy  Toast; 
Oyster  Patties ;  Veal  and  Ham  ditto. 

Pickled  Herring,  Sprats,  and  Mackarel;  Pickled 
Cockles  and  Mussels. 

Potted  Shrimps,  Lobster,  Bloaters,  Hare,  Beef, 
Sprats,  Mackarel,  Herring. 

Brawn,  Galantine  of  Fowl,  Pork  Cheese,  Calfs- 
Head  Cheese. 

Caviare  and  its  imitations. 

Pat€  de  Foie  Gras,  Terrines  de  Tours  or  de  Perigord, 
Strasbourg  Liver  Pat&,  and  like  preparations  containing 
Trufiles;  Hare  Pates,  Pat6s  of  Snipe,  Lark,  or  Par- 
tridge ;  Venison  Pasty,  Goose  Pie,  Ac  Ac 


HOBS  D'CEUyBES«  81 

From  ihe  great  yarieiy  on  this  list  (whioh  might  be 
extended)^  it  is  evident  that  we  should  be  wrong  in 
condemning  them  indiscriminately  because  ihey  appear 
opposed  to  plain  living  and  a  simple  diet  In  the  first 
place,  they  are  intended  to  be  merely  tctsted^  and  not  to 
form  a  substantial  portion  of  any  meal.  And,  secondly,^ 
some  hora  cTceuvres  render  medicinal  service  by  the  ele-^ 
ments  (needful,  though  it  may  be  in  infinitesimal  quan-^ 
tities)  which  they  help  to  introduce  into  the  system^ 

No  uncooked  vegetables — such  as  radishes,  garden-* 
cress,  and  cucumbers — should  be  used  except  those  that 
have  been  quuMy  grown,  i^.  on  a  hot-bed,  or  in  a 
fitone.  Out-door  spring  radishes  are  as  indigestible  as 
marbles;  and  out-door  slow-grown  cress  rivals  iron- 
wire.  Water-cress  must  come  fix)m  running  water- 
Sweet  hors  d^osuvres  combine  the  virtues  both  of  sugar 
and  of  firuit  You  can  take,  in  marmalade,  the  tonic, 
anti-febrile,  anti-scorbutic  orange ;  or,  in  jelly  and  jam, 
the  cooling  and  refreshing  currant  and  raspberry. 

Smoked  and  salted  meats  are  of  questionable  value 
to  the  invalid,  while  dried  and  smoked  sausages  are 
more  than  questionable,  often  being  the  cause  of  heart- 
bum.  On  the  other  hand,  fish  in  oil,  salt,  or  vinegar 
(when  the  stomach  can  bear  them)  are  healthier  stimu- 
lants, not  open  to  the  same  objection. 

Of  caviare  (a  preparation  of  the  roe  of  certain  fish) 
there  are  several  varieties,  all  good  when  good  of  their 
kind.  The  Norwegian  caviare,  flavoured  with  cloves, 
and  obtained  firom  Bergen  and  other  towns,  is  excellent ; 
the  black  caviare,  supplied  from  Hamburgh,  is  particu- 

G 


82  HOBS  D*<EXJVBES. 

larlj  delicate.  An  admirable  preparation,  based  on 
similar  materials,  called  poutarquej  or  sometimes  &ou* 
tarqusj  is  made  at  Martigaes,  near  Marseilles.  To  the 
convalescent,  whose  doctor  allows  him  light  solids,  I  can 
recommend,  from  experience,  as  one  of  his  first  dinners, 
a  Scalded  Whiting,  or  a  Boiled  Partridge,  followed  bj 
a  very  small  slice  of  thin  toast,  well  spread  with  caviare. 
Top  this  with  a  glass  of  good  Bhine  wine,  preferring  the 
rods.  The  best  dessert  is,  none  at  all — unless  another 
bit  of  toast  without  the  caviare ;  but  an  orange  is  allowed 
to  lie  by  the  bedside  to  suck  if  thirsty  during  the  night 

Fatda  de  Foie  Grrasy  from  Strasbourg  and  elsewhere, 
need  not  be  altogether  eschewed,  if  cautiously  tasted  now 
and  then ;  on  the  contrary,  the  luscious  morsel  requires 
to  be  accompanied  by  a  wholesome  crust  of  bread,  and 
calls  for  a  sip  of  generous  wine.  Respecting  the  small 
quantity  of  truffles  they  contain,  opinions  differ ;  some 
hold  them  to  be  stimulating,  others  not.  The  best  me- 
dical authorities,  taking  a  common-sense  view,  maintain 
tliat  truffles  and  the  like  excite  the  system  only  when 
they  are  served  at  wealthy  tables,  and  accompanied  by 
more  substantial  luxuries.  Feed  a  man  on  bread-and- 
water  and  truffles,  and  it  is  probable  he  Avill  not  com- 
plain of  their  heating  effects. 

On  the  whole,  the  invalid  is  advised  to  taste  and  try, 
sparingly  and  at  intervals,  such  of  these  little  dainties  as 
take  his  fancy  and  promise  to  suit  his  stomach  best. 
Some  few  he  may  wisely  refrain  from  utterly;  but, 
with  the  majority,  he  may  indulge  an  invalid's  curiosity 
or  caprice,  having  due  regard  to  the  grand  point  of 


HOBS  d'ceuybss.  83 

qtiantiij.  How  often  does  a  convalesoenrfl  longing  point 
to  the  element  his  ease  requires  I  How  often,  when  a 
crisis  is  passed,  recovery  commences  by  the  patient's 
taking  something  he  fimcies, — a  mere  nothing,  perhaps, 
but  for  which  he  feels  a  craving, — one  oyster,  half  a 
dozen  hustled  or  roasted  cockles,  marmalade,  milk,  por- 
ter, hock,  fish,  an  egg,  or  a  mutton-chop  I  What,  in 
short,  is  weakness,  but  the  absence  of  the  elements  of 
strength,  which  it  is  the  business  of  the  store-room  and 
the  kitchen,  quite  as  much  as  of  the  druggist's  shop,  to 
supply  ? 

Many  of  these  hars  cToffuvres  can  be  obtained,  ready 
prepared,  firom  shops  and  warehouses  in  our  principal 
towns.  Bespecting  those  which  cannot,  here  are  a  few 
hints ;  others  will  bp  found  in  their  places. 

Potted  CJieese.  Put  into  a  marble  mortar  a  pound 
of  Cheshire  cheese  cut  into  dice,  six  ounces  of  good 
butter,  four  tea-spoonftds  of  loaf-sugar  in  powder,  and 
one-teaspoonful  of  pounded  mace.  Pour  over  the  whole 
four  glasses  of  sherry ;  let  it  stand  and  soak  two  or 
three  minutes ;  then  pound  all  finely  together.  As  soon 
as  it  is  well  worked  into  a  smooth  paste,  put  it  into  one 
or  more  close-covered  jars,  according  to  convenience. 
For  immediate  use,  there  is  no  need  to  run  clarified 
butter  over  the  surface.  If  the  lid  fits  well,  and  the 
butter  employed  is  sweet,  cheese  tlius  potted  will  keep 
good  a  month  or  more. 

Potted  Beef,  Take  any  remains  of  sweet  underdone 
roast  beef  (the  lean  only)  which  you  happen  to  have. 
Out  it  into  dice,  and  then  pound  in  a  mortar  with 


84  HOBS  d'ceuvres* 

pepper,  salt,  and  any  other  spice  that  is  likeiL  To  keep, 
it  must  be  rather  highly  seasoned.  Anchovy,  or  other 
stimulant  condiments,  may  be  added.  When  reduced 
in  the  mortar  to  a  paste,  press  it  lightly  into  shallow 
jars,  smooth  the  top,  and  cover  it  from  the  air  by 
pouring  on  clarified  butter,  i.  e,  butter  reduced  to  a  liquid 
state  by  setting  it  in  a  sauoeboat  before  or  beside  the  fire, 
or,  better,  in  a  hot-water  bath.  Let  the  butter  stand  a 
few  minutes  after  melting,  to  clarify,  before  pouring  it 
on  the  potted  meat. 

Other  cooked  meats  and  game — chicken,  hare,  veal, 
and  partridge — are  potted  in  the  same  way, — ^by  pound- 
ing to  a  paste  with  spice,  and  covering  in  jars  with  oiled 
butter. 

Shrimps  (whole),  lobsters  (in  pieces),  salmon  and 
other  fish  (in  flakes),  cooked  and  cold,  can  also  be  potted 
by  salting,  spicing,  packing,  and  pressing  closely  into 
pots,  and  covering  with  clarified  butter ;  but  they  will 
not  keep  good  for  many  days.  Indeed,  a  jar  of  any 
potted  meat  should  be  finished  soon  after  it  is  begun  to 
be  used. 

Fish  are  likewise  potted  by  a  quite  difierent  process, 
which  renders  them,  in  American  language,  very  useftil 
and  palatable  ^^  relishes." 

Potted  MachareL  Clean  your  fish  without  opening 
them ;  draw  the  intestines,  but  leave  the  roes  and  the 
milts.  Bemove  the  heads  and  tails,  and  then  cut  each 
fish  into  three  equal  portions.  Wash,  drain,  and  wipe 
dry  with  a  cloth. 

Take  an  oval  earthen  pat^-dish,  with  a  close-fitting 


HOBS  d'ceuvbes.  85 

cover;  or,  for  want  of  it,  a  round  earthen  or  stone  pot. 
If  this  latter  has  no  cover,  a  wooden  one  may  be  made 
to  fit  it.  Pat  at  the  bottom  a  layer  of  pieces  of  fish ; 
season  them  with  salt,  whole  pepper,  cloves,  allspice, 
and  bay-leaf;  then  another  layer  of  fish ;  then  another 
sprinkling  of  seasoning,  and  so  on.  Pour  over  all  these, 
until  they  are  well  covered,  a  mixtm*e  of  half  vinegar 
and  half  water ;  some  use  half  vinegar  and  half  table- 
beer,  or  even  a  mixture  of  vinegar  and  cider.  Put  on 
the  lid,  and  set  in  a  slow  oven  until  thoroughly  done. 
Let  cool  with  the  Ud  on.  Fish  so  potted  will  keep  a 
long  time,  if  always  immersed  in  the  liquor ;  and  the 
veiy  bones  become  eatable.  It  affords  a  convenient  . 
resource ;  for  a  few  pieces  of  fish  can  be  taken  from 
the  pot  with  a  silver  or  wooden  spoon,  laid  on  a  small 
dish,  a  little  of  the  liquor  poured  over  them,  and  served 
garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  What  is  lefl;  can  be 
returned  to  the  pot. 

Herring  are  often  potted  in  the  same  way  whole; 
but  halved,  they  are  more  convenient  to  serve.  SpratSy 
of  course,  are  potted  whole.  These  two  latter  take  a 
shorter  time  to  bake  than  mackarel. 

Collared  Eel.  The  larger  the  eel,  the  better;  a 
middle-sized  one  will  do,  and  even  small  eels  may  be 
collared.  Only,  if  several  eels  are  cooked  in  the  same 
dish  or  pot,  they  should  all  be  of  the  same  size. 

Skin  your  eel ;  cut  off  the  head  and  the  tip  of  the 
tail ;  split  it  down  the  belly  from  end  to  end ;  remove 
the  backbone;  lay  it  fiat  like  a  ribbon;  wash,  drain, 
and  dry  with  a  napkin. 


86  HOBS  d'ocuybes. 

Lay  the  open  eel  flat  on  its  back;  Bprinklo  its 
inner  surface  throughout  the  whole  of  its  length  with 
salt,  ground  pepper,  and  allspice.  Grated  nutmeg 
maj  be  added  if  approved,  as  may  also  a  little  chopped 
parsley  or  sage,  although  the  latter  are  not  commonly 
used. 

Boll  the  eel  together  very  tightly,  beginning  at  the 
broadest  end,  until  you  reach  the  tail.  Tie  it  round  in 
several  places  very  tightly  with  a  broad  tape.  String 
would  cut  the  flesh  when  done  enough. 

Put  your  eel,  or  eels,  so  rolled,  into  a  pat^-dish,  or 
earthen  pot  with  a  lid.  Cover  them  well  with  vinegar 
and  water,  or  vinegar  and  beer.  Throw  in  a  little  salt, 
whole  pepper,  or  cloves  and  bay-leaf.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  The  time  of  baking  will  depend  on  the  size  of 
your  eels.  They  must  be  kept,  when  cold,  covered  with 
their  liquor.  Large  collared  eel  may  be  served  in  slices, 
as  many  or  as  few  on  a  dish  as  circumstances  require. 
Small  collared  eels  may  appear  whole,  afler  removing  the 
tape  which  binds  them. 

Collared  Meaty  as  Beef  or  Tonffue^  is  done  by  boning 
a  long  flat  piece ;  pickling  it  well  in  salt,  saltpetre,  sugar 
or  treacle,  and  spice ;  rolling  it  like  the  eel,  and  binding 
it  as  tightly  as  possible  with  long  strips  of  linen  ;  boiling 
it  very  slowly,  and  letting  it  cool  for  at  least  a  night 
before  removing  its  bandages.  In  slices,  it  makes  a 
pleasant  and  wholesome  relish. 

Pai^  de  Lievre — Hare  Paiiy  A  (French).  For  this, 
an  oval  pate-dish  with  a  lid  is  indispensable. 

Skin  your  hare ;  empiy  it,  saving  all  the  blood  in  a 


HOBS  b'ceuviubs.  87 

cap ;  cat  it  up  into  joiBts,  or  half-joints^  of  convenient 
size  for  serving  to  a  guest 

Take  a  pound  of  sausage-meat  and  a  pound  of  well- 
chopped  veal;  mix  them  together. 

Then  mix  separatelj  two  or  three  minced  shallots, 
minced  thyme  and  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 

CShop  the  veal-bones  into  moderate-sized  pieces. 

At  the  bottom  of  the  dish  put  a  layer  of  hare,  then 
a  layer  of  the  mixed  sausage  and  veal.  Sprinkle  that 
with  the  mixture  of  herbs  and  spice,  and  then  cover 
them  with  a  few  very  thin  slices  of  fresh  bacon.  Pro- 
ceed in  the  same  way,  until  the  dish  is  all  but  full. 
Pour  in  the  blood  and  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.  CoA-er 
the  whole  with  thin-sliced  bacon  and  three  or  four  bay- 
leaves.  The  veal-bones  should  have  been  inserted  here 
and  there  in  the  substance  of  the  pat^.  Put  on  the 
lid,  and  seal  it  down  hermetically  round  the  edge  with 
a  thick  paste  made  of  flour  and  water.  Bake,  by  letting 
it  pass  the  night  in  a  baker's  oven  after  the  bread  is 
drawn. 

WUd'Fowl  Patij  and  especiaUy  WUd^Goaee  Pati^ 
are  made  in  the  same  way,  and  are  excellent 

Paid  de  Lievre—Hare  Paii,  B  (French).  This  pre- 
paration might  be  just  as  appropriately  called  Hare 
Cheese,  When  the  hare  is  skinned  and  emptied,  joint 
it,  and  cut  off  all  the  flesh  from  the  bones.  Chop  it 
fine,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt 

Take  an  equal  quantity  of  veal,  chop  it  fine,  and 
season  in  like  manner. 

At  the  bottom  of  your  pat^-dish  spread  a  layer  of 


88  HOBS  D^CBUVBES. 

cliopped  hare,  then  a  layer  of  chopped  veal^  and  over 
that  very  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  then  hare  again,  and  so 
on,  finishing  off  with  thin  bacon  and  a  few  bay-leaves 
at  top.  Pour  in  half  a  teacupful  of  water  to  assist  in 
making  the  jelly ;  close  the  lid  with  paste,  and  bake  as 
before. 

Similar  pat6s  may  be  made,  substituting  beef,  calfs 
liver,  turkey,  or  fowl,  for  hare.  Pat6  B  is  more  con- 
venient for  picnics,  travelling,  and  serving  in  slices. 
Pat4  A  is  more  nutritious,  on  account  of  its  containing 
the  gelatine  from  the  bones,  and  is  also  more  highly 
flavoured.  Both  will  keep  (unopened)  for  a  considerable 
time,  and  will  indeed  be  all  the  better  for  a  little  keeping. 

Pork  Civeeae.  After  pig-killing  or  sausage-making, 
collect  the  bones,  break  tliem  tolerably  small,  and  boil 
them  in  plain  water  till  all  the  goodness  is  got  out  of 
them. 

Gret  together  any  imused  pieces  of  meat,  skin,  and 
tendon.  Cut  them  up  small,  without  mincing  them.  If 
the  feet  are  not  wanted,  they  may  be  used,  after*  being 
boiled  with  the  bones,  and  their  bones  removed;  also 
the  ears  and  the  trimmings  of  the  head,  when  the  chops 
or  the  pigs*  faces  are  to  be  salted.  Boil  these  till  quite 
tender  in  the  liquor  from  the  bones.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  allspice  or  mace.  Pour  into  basins  or 
moulds,  distributing  with  a  spoon  an  equal  portion  of 
the  meat  to  each  mould,  and  then  filling  up  with  the 
liquor.  Let  stand  at  least  all  one  night  in  a  cool  place 
to  stiffen,  before  turning  it  out  of  the  mould.  When 
several  pork  cheeses  are  made,  they  are  best  left  in  the 


HOBS  D*(EUYBBS«  89 

moulds  till  wanted.  Those  intended  to  be  kept  longest 
can  be  a  litUe  more  highlj  seasoned.  Small  moulds  are 
most  convenient  for  serving  fresh  and  fresh  to  a  small 
family  or  new  arrivals. 

CcifB^Hecd  Cheese,  Take  the  remains  of  a  cold 
Calfs  Head ;  cut  it  into  pieces.  Put  it  in  a  small  stew- 
pan,  with  the  remains  of  the  brains  or  the  brain-*sauce, 
if  an  J.  Add  salt,  pepper,  powdered  or  minced  sage,  one 
lump  of  sugar,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  vinegar,  half  a  glass 
or  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira,  and  as  much  of  the 
calTs-head  boilings  as  will  just  moisten  the  whole,  and 
cover  it  sh'ghtlj.  Simmer  gently,  taking  care  that 
nothing  sticks  to  the  bottom,  until  the  liquor  is  reduced 
to  the  level  of  the  meat.  Then  put  into  basins  or  moulds, 
to  cool  and  stiffen,  in  the  same  way  and  with  the  same 
treatment  as  for  Pork  Cheese. 

Calf*8'Head  Pie  may  be  made  either  with  a  top 
crust,  like  an  ordinary  English  meat-pie;  or  with  a 
standing  crust ;  or  in  a  covered  dish,  unthout  crust,  like 
a  French  pat^.  In  any  case,  you  will  take  the  Highgate 
affirmation,  never  to  eat  it  liot — unless  you  like  it  best. 

Plain-boil  a  calPs  head,  untU  it  is  nearly,  not  quite, 
enough.  When  cold,  cut  it  into  strips  of  convenient 
length.  Dust  each  strip  separately  with  a  little  pepper, 
flour,  and  salt  Treat  the  brains  and  the  tongue  (after 
peeling  it)  in  the  same  way.  Pack  these  in  your  pie 
or  pat£  dish  in  layers,  seasoning  them  with  cliopped 
lemon-peel,  minced  sage  and  thyme,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Moisten  with  the  calf 's-head  boilings,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of 


90  HOBS  d'ceuvbes. 

Harvey^s  or  Worcestershire  sauce.  A  leetle  sprinkling 
of  sugar  in  the  substance  of  the  pie— a  mere  surmise 
of  it,  not  enough  to  be  tasted— adds  great  mellowness 
and  delicacy. 

If  your  pie  has  a  crust,  bake  in  an  oven  only  just 
brisk  enough  to  raise  and  brown  the  crust,  and  take 
care  the  gravy  does  not  boil  over.  If  it  is  a  pat£,  lute 
down  the  cover  with  paste,  as  for  Hare  Pate.  This 
pie  is  useful  for  hasty  meals,  repasts  in  railway  car- 
riages, or  on  summer  jaunts.  If  wanted  for  a  very  large 
party,  to  make  two  or  more  separate  pies,  the  quantity 
may  be  increased  by  adding  lean-cooked  veal  and  a  pre- 
pared sweetbread  to  the  sliced  calPs  head,  brains,  and 
tongue.  The  flavour  may  be  also  varied  by  the  addition 
of  oysters  and  button  mushrooms  or  truffles,  when  the 
latter  happen  to  be  sold  for  something  less  than  tlieir 
weight  in  silver. 

Hustled  Cockles.  Tliose  found  in  sand  are  by  far  the 
best.  Cockles  from  mud-banks,  without  being  unwhole- 
some, are  less  delicate  in  flavour,  and  require  a  longer 
time  to  cleanse  themselves.  The  purcliaser,  however, 
seldom  knows  whence  the  cockles  come. 

Therefore,  after  washing  them  in  two  or  three  waters, 
leave  them  in  a  bowl  all  night,  just  covered  with  cool 
spring-water,  wUItout  ptUting  salt  into  it.  If  sea-water  is 
to  be  had,  a  mixture  of  half  sea-water  (afler  letting  it 
settle)  and  half  spring- water  is  even  preferable  for  the 
purpose. 

Put  the  cockles  to  bS  hustled  into  a  large  tin  sauce- 
pan, not  too  deep,  with  no  water,  and  without  the  lid. 


HOBS  D*<EnVBES.  91 

Set  it  on  a  brisk  fire.  The  cockles  at  the  bottom  will 
immediatelj  let  out  enough  liquid  to  save  it  from  burn- 
ing. As  soon  as  they  begin  to  warm,  shake  or  hustle 
them  in  the  saucepan,  so  as  to  bring  them  to  the  top ; 
and  so  on,  till  all  the  cockles  have  felt  the  influence  of 
the  heat.  When  thej  begin  to  open,  they  are  enough. 
Pour  them,  with  their  hot  liquor  over  them,  into  a 
bowl  or  deep  dish,  and  serve  immediatelj.  They  will 
open  still  further  on  their  way  to  table.  Too  much  done, 
they  are  spoiled. 

If  the  quantity  to  be  cooked  is  large,  they  are  better 
hustled  in  several  doings,  and  served  hot  and  hot  as 
wanted. 

Hustled  Mussels,  Proceed  as  above ;  only  the  lid 
had  better  remain  on  the  saucepan,  to  keep  in  the  steam, 
as  mussels  require  more  thorough  cooking  than  cockles, 
and  are  not  agreeable  underdone,  although  many  dwellers 
on  the  coast  eat  them  raw.  The  best  mussels  are  those 
that  have  been  pitted  two  or  three  years,  especially  near 
the  mouth  of  a  stream,  which  subjects  them  to  the  in- 
fluence of  brackish  water.  Choose  such  as  are  large  in 
the  shell,  plump  in  the  flesh,  and  brilliant  orange  in 
hue.  Mussels  are  occasionally  unwholesome  or  poison- 
ous. There  is  no  test — onion,  silver  spoon,  or  other — 
by  which  to  know  whether  mussels  will  prove  injurious 
or  not  Something  may  depend  on  the  season  and  on 
their  freshness,  and  also  on  the  eater's  individual  con- 
stitution. Some  persons  eat  heartily  of  mussels  at  all 
times  with  impunity ;  others  flare  not  swallow  a  single 
one. 


92  HORS  d'(EUYRES. 

Pickled  Cockles.  After  hustling,  pick  the  cockles  out 
of  their  shells  with  a  fork,  and  put  thein  into  a  common 
preserve-jar,  dusting  pepper  over  them  from  time  to 
time.  Wheu  the  liquor  which  comes  from  them  has 
settled,  pour  over  the  cockles  a  mixture  of  half  liquor 
and  half  vinegar.  Tie  them  down  close  with  bladder  or 
paper.  Thej  will  keep  several  days,  according  to  the 
heat  of  the  weather. 

Fickled.Mussels.  As  above;  only,  before  putting  them 
into  the  jar,  remove  the  bit  of  weed,  if  any,  attached  to 
the  base  of  their  foot,  and  open  them  slightly  in  order 
to  see  whether  a  little  parasitic  crab  has  not  concealed 
itself  within  them.  Those  witli  the  crab  arc  seldom  so 
good.  If  not  for  early  use,  they  should  be  pickled  in 
pure  vinegar  (not,  however,  too  strong),  with  plenty  of 
spice.  Norway  sends  out  very  fine  pickled  mussels,  as 
well  as  many  other  fish  Iiors  (Ttjeuvresj  which  are  to  be 
had  of  tlie  principal  Italian  warehouses. 

EscargoU — Edible  Snails  (French).  All  snails  are 
both  edible  and  nutritive.  Their  use,  and  the  choice  of 
sort,  depends  on  local  custom.  The  edible  snail,  par 
exceUencCy  is  the  Helix  Pomatiaj  of  which  millions  arc 
annually  sent  to  Paris  from  the  vineyards  of  Burgundy 
and  other  central  parts  of  France.  It  is  also  abundant 
in  the  valley  of  Lauterbrunnen  and  other  sheltered  Swiss 
valleys,  where,  however,  it  is  not  employed  as  an  article 
of  diet  It  will  Uirive  in  England,  and  is  even  included 
on  the  list  of  our  native  snails.  Dr.  Neill  had  a  colony 
sent  from  Somersetshire,  which  multiplied  in  the  cre-» 
vices  of  a  rockwork,  until  they  were  extirpated  by  a 


HOBS  d'cbuvbes.  93 

tame  heron.  The  edible  snail  is  larger  than  the  largo 
brown  garden  snail,  with  a  shell  of  a  light  yellow- 
ochreons  tint.  Garden  snails  are  commonly  eaten  in 
districts  of  the  Continent  where  H.  Pomatia  is  not  found. 

The  reason  for  giving  the  following  receipts  is  not 
only  because  they  constitute  dishes  regarded  as  luxuries 
in  France  and  elsewhere,  but  on  account  of  the  old  and 
very  extensive  belief  in  their  restorative  properties.  Not 
long  since  a  widow  was  tried  for  stealing  meat,  the 
principal  evidence  against  her  being  the  healthy  plight 
of  her  numerous  children.  After  very  hard  pressing,  she 
at  last  avowed  that  she  eked  out  her  family's  scanty  fare 
by  feeding  them  with  the  large  meadow  slug,  which  she 
collected  and  pickled  in  brine — that  was  the  cause  of 
their  florid  health.  Certain  medical  practitioners  have 
believed  they  had  discovered  and  extracted  the  medicinal 
principle  contained  in  slugs  and  snails,  and  have  sold  it 
at  high  prices  under  the  name  of  ^^  Helicine."  Snails 
supply  the  ingredient  which  gives  its  specific  virtue  to  a 
variety  of  popular  Cures  for  Consumption,  which  might 
be  quoted  were  there  room  for  them. 

Escargots  are  in  season  from  autumn  till  spring — u  e. 
from  the  time  of  their  retiring  to  their  winter's  rest, 
until  they  resume  their  active  life.  They  are  eaten, 
however,  during  the  cooler  months,  after  keeping  them 
without  food  several  days  to  cleanse  them.  Those  from 
the  vineyards  are  considered  the  best.  All  snails  are 
regarded  as  heavy  to  digest,  but  favourable  to  consti- 
tutions requiring  mucilaginous  aliment,  and  "  very  sto- 
machic" 


94  HOBS  d'ceuvbes. 

Edible  Snails  a  la  PotdeUe,  Boil  lihem  in  Bait  and 
water  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  they  will  then  oome  easily 
out  of  their  shell.  Rinse  them  in  lukewarm  water ;  boil 
in  plain  water  for  a  few  minutes  until  enough,  and  drain. 

Pat  into  a  saucepan  a  bit  of  butter,  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  water,  button  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and 
thyme,  two  or  three  bay-leaves,  two  cloves,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Thicken  with  yolk  of  egg,  which  must  not  boiL 
Warm  up  yom:  Escargots  in  this  sauce,  and  serve. 

Escarffots  a  la  Bourguignonne^  Burgundy  way.  Boil 
them  as  before ;  take  out  of  the  shell ;  boil  again,  and 
drain.  Clean  the  shells  thoroughly,  and  put  them  in  a 
warm  place  to  drain  and  dry. 

Chop  together  parsley  and  chives,  with  a  little  minced 
garlic,  if  not  objected  to.  Work  them  up  with  good 
butter,  pepper,  and  salt  Put  a  little  of  this  mixture  at 
the  bottom  of  each  shell,  and  then  return  the  snail  into 
it ;  then  stop  the  mouth  of  the  snail  shell  with  the  same, 
spreading  it  smooth.  In  this  state  they  will  keep  for  a 
while,  and  are  so  displayed  in  the  windows  of  Parisian 
eating-houses.  When  wanted,  they  are  heated-up  either 
on  a  gridiron  or  in  an  oven,  and  served  on  the  dish  in 
which  they  have  been  heated.  Each  guest  is  supplied 
with  a  little  fork  with  which  to  extract  them  from  the 
shell.  To  save  trouble,  persons  curious  to  try  them  can 
easily  procure  ihem  ready-prepared  from  Paris.  They 
would  be  relished  here  if  known  by  any  other  nama 
Why  not  call  them  "  French  Periwinkles"  ? 

Periwinkles.     Snails  of  the  sea,  feeding  exclusively 


HOBS  d'obuvbes.  95 

on  seaweed,  ought  to  possess  nearly  the  same  properties 
as  land-snails,  witli  the  additional  merit  (although  equally 
hard  to  digest)  of  containing  a  small  proportion  of  iodine. 
Boil  theni  in  salt  and  water  from  twenty  minutes  to  half 
an  hour,  according  to  size.  They  are  eaten  by  pulling 
them  out  of  their  shells  with  a  pin, — whence  their  East- 
Anglian  name,  ^^  pin-patches,'' — and  are  a  very  pleasant 
irelish  with  a  slice  of  bread-and-butter,  or  a  glass  of  wine. 
A  late  nobleman,  whose  seat  is  not  far  from  the  Nor- 
folk coast,  used  to  have  periwinkles  occasionally  served 
at  dessert,  accompanied  by  pincushions  duly  garnished, 
*  for  the  use  of  his  guesin. 

WTieUcs  are  moUuscivorous  mollusks,  preying  on 
other  shell-fish.  Their  flesh,  hard  and  indigestible,  re- 
quires long  previous  boiling  before  any  subsequent 
dressing.  They  may  be  fried,  and  served  with  browned 
butter  and  vinegar ;  or  either  stewed  or  scolloped,  like 
oysters.  Soyer,  who  did  not  much  approve  of  "  muscles," 
held  whelks  to  be  ^^  exceedingly  wholesome  fish." 

Dutch  Herring  are  simply  salted  to  saturation,  and 
then  packed  in  barrels  with  more  salt  The  only  dressing 
to  which  they  are  submitted  is  to  scrape  off  their  scales, 
and  cut  the  fiesh  into  narrow  strips,  which  are  thus  eaten 
raw,  with  the  addition,  perhaps,  of  a  little  pepper  and 
vinegar.  A  little  bit  will  go  a  long  way — half  a  herring 
will  sene  one  or  two  persons  for  several  repasts;  the 
Doctor  has  known  a  delicate  invalid  to  call  for  a  morsel 
of  Dutch  Herring  with  bread-and-butter,  and  enjoy  it, 
when  nothing  else  would  suit  the  appetite. 

Red  Herring  are  also  eaten  (as  a  thumb-piece)  by 


dC)  HOBS  D'cEUYRES* 

the  Tarmoaih  fishermen  cold;  they  cannot  be  called  raw 
after  having  been  exposed  to  the  action  of  hot  smoke  for 
several  days.  The  flavour  is  softer  than  after  cooking. 
Strips  of  untoasted  Bed  Herring  answer  many  of  the 
purposes  to  which  anchovies  are  applied-as  for  sand- 
wiches,  and  for  heightening  the  relish  of  soups.  Nor 
need  the  custom  surprise  those  to  whom  it  is  new.  In 
Germany  (before  the  cause  of  the  pig  disease— not  the 
disease  itself — trichinosis  was  known),  on  calling  for 
Ham,  it  was  usual  to  be  asked :  "  Which  do  you  prefer, 
cooked  or  raw  ?"  The  raw  ham  was  served  in  slices  of 
more  than  the  historical  Yauxhall  thinness,  and  few 
would  suspect  its  uncooked  state  who  had  not  been  made 
aware  of  it  For  persons  who  cannot  bear  too  much 
salt.  Bed  Herring  may  be  steeped  in  tepid  water  four- 
and-twenty  or  six-and-tliirty  hours.  Open  at  the  belly; 
lay  the  fish  flat;  do  not  take  out  the  backbone;  and 
toast,  or  heat  on  a  gridiron,  exposing  the  skin-side  only 
to  the  fire. 

Yarmouth  Bloaters  should  be  served  in  the  same  way, 
minus  the  steeping.  All  they  require  is  to  be  a  little 
more  than  well  warmed  through.  The  best  way  of  cook- 
ing Bloaters  is  to  lay  them,  aftier  opening,  on  their 
backs  for  a  very  few  minutes  on  the  working  boiler  of  a 
steam-engine,  which  is  always  hot  enough,  and  never 
too  hot.  Eh'gible  substitutes  for  this  will  occur  to  the 
ingenious  reader. 

Red  SpratSy  opened  exactly  like  Bloaters,  need  only 
to  be  just  shown  the  fire,  in  a  Dutch  oven ;  or,  better, 
in  an  open  plate,  on  a  ^^  footman''  or  toast-stand. 


HOBS  d'obitybes.  97 

Qumee  Marmalade.  Sweets  are  quite  as  essential  as 
Barouries  for  the  support  of  constitutions  that  are  not 
robust*  A  few  saccharine  delicacies  may  therefore  ap- 
propriately be  given  here. 

Many  a  peck  of  rotten  quinces  is  thrown  out  to 
mingle  with  the  other  components  of  the  gardener's 
manure-heap.  The  fulsome  smell  of  the  uncooked  firuit 
may  have  something  to  do  with  the  disregard  with  which 
they  are  treated;  and  Ihey  are  mostly  looked  upon  as 
at  best  good  for  nothing  but  to  ^ve  a  ftdler  flavour  to 
an  apple-pie^  instead  of  affording  an  abundant  supply  of 
excellent,  wholesome,  and  even  sanative  preserve. 

Let  the  fruit  hang  on  the  tree  until  one  quince  falls 
to  the  ground;  then  gather  the  crop.  Pare,  quarter, 
and  core  them;  but  scrupulously  save  every  pip.  The 
pips  of  quinces  abound  in  mucilage,  as  may  be  perceived 
by  taking  one  into  the  mouth  and  chewing  it,  when  it 
will  make  the  lips  stick  together  as  a  piece  of  gum 
arabic  would.  Put  the  quinces  with  the  pips  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  a  sufficiency  of  lump-sugar,  and  just  enough 
water  at  the  bottom  to  keep  them  from  burning.  As 
the  sugar  dissolves  and  the  liquor  boils,  continue  stirring 
the  whole  mass.  When  the  fruit  becomes  tender,  break 
and  mash  it  well  with  a  spoon.  In  about  an  hour  from 
the  commencement  of  the  operation  it  will  be  enough. 
It  may  then  be  turned  out  into  preserve-jars ;  a  portion 
shotdd  be  put  into  shapes,  to  be  used  at  dessert  in  the 
same  way  as  bullace  and  damson  cheese.  The  next 
morning  it  ought  to  be  perfectly  stiff  and  gelatinous, 
from  the  strong  mucilage  of  the  pips  having  been  tho* 


98  HOBS  D'<ET7VBE8. 

roughly  incorporated  with  the  wliole  mass.  The  qnantity 
of  sugar  used  may  be  rather  less  than  is  necessary  for 
Other  preserves.  Tied  down  in  the  usual  way,  it  will  keep 
good  for  a  long  time.  The  medicinal  qualities  of  this 
preparation  are  applicable  to  those  cases  in  which  muci- 
lage is  administered  internally ;  and  a  pot  of  Quince 
Marmalade  would  be  as  agreeable  a  prescription  to  a 
dy  suretic  patient  as  a  dish  of  roasted  onions^  or  a  dose 
of  linseed  jelly. 

Quince  Jelly  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  the  fol- 
lowing. 

Apple  JeUy.  Peel,  quarter,  and  cut  up  into  small 
pieces,  a  quantify  of  pippin  apples.  Put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  drop  of  water.  When  cooked  to  a  mash,  put 
them  in  a  jelly-bag,  and  let  them  drain  all  night  Next 
morning,  put  the  juice  in  a  saucepan,  taking  care  not  to 
pour  the  bottom  or  sediment  into  it,  in  order  that  the 
apple-juice  may  remain  clear.  Put  in  sufficient  sugar  to 
bring  it  to  the  sweetness  of  currant  jelly.  Boil  until  it 
will  jelly  when  cold,  and  put  away  in  pots  or  glasses. 

Orange-Apple  Jelly.  When  the  apple-juice,  as  above, 
is  put  into  the  saucepan  to  be  boiled  down  with  the 
sugar,  throw  in  slices  of  orange  with  the  peel  on  and  the 
pips  removed.  Let  all  cook  together.  On  potting  it 
off,  let  each  pot  of  jelly  contain  a  slice  or  two  of  orange. 
Both  of  the  above  are  delicate  sweet  relishes  to  eat  with 
bread. 

Btdlace  Cheese  and  Damson  Cheese  are  both  made 
in  the  same  way,  and  are  both  good;  as,  likewise,  is 
the  same  preparation  made  from  several  other  small  late 


HOBS  d'cextvbes,  99 

plams.  When  there  is  a  choioe,  Bnllaoe  Cheese  is  pre- 
ferable. In  colooTy  as  well  as  in  oonsistencj,  it  ap- 
proaches closely  to  Goava  Jelly;  and  its  peculiar  acid 
renders  it  refreshing  and  cleansing  to  the  mouth  of  a 
feverish  invalid. 

Let  the  fruit  hang  on  the  trees  till  it  has  been  touched 
by  a  slight  hoar-fr^si  Weigh  the  quantiiy  you  intend 
to  use ;  and  for  every  pound  of  fruit,  put  aside  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  sugar. 

Put  your  buUaceSy  without  water  or  any  thing  else, 
into  a  deep  stone  jar.  Of  course,  you  will  have  picked 
out  every  damaged  fruit.  Set  the  jar,  nearly  up  to 
the  neck,  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  after  having  tied 
double  paper  over  the  top  to  keep  out  the  vapour;  or  you 
may  set  it  in  a  very  slow  oven.  When  the  fruit  is  quite 
soft  and  tender,  pour  it  into  a  bowl,  and  remove  the 
stones  with  a  fork,  but  leave  the  skins.  In  most  fruits 
(the  black  grape  is  a  notable  example)  the  skin  con- 
tains medicinal  elements  which  it  is  desirable  to  retain  in 
beverages  or  preserves  made  from  them. 

Then  pour  all — juice,  flesh,  and  skins — into  a  wide, 
open  stew-pan.  Add  the  sugar,  and  boil  well,  with  great 
care  not  to  bum,  until  the  whole  is  reduced  to  a  thick 
paste  or  pulp.  The  time  required  to  reduce  it  to  the 
requisite  thickness  cannot  be  specifled,  depending  on 
circumstances.  Even  experienced  persons  decide  by 
trying  it*  A  dessert-spoonful,  set  out  of  doors  to  cool 
in  a  saucer,  wiU  tell  them  if  their  cheese  is  stiff  enough. 
If  not,  it  must  be  boiled  a  little  longer,  to  cause  a  still 
ftirther  loss  of  watery  particles. 


100  QOBS  D*(EnyRE3. 

When  done,  pour  or  spoon  it  out  into  small  shallow 
shapes  or  moulds — saucers  for  small  cheeses,  soup-plates 
for  large  ones,  answer  exceedingly  well.  To  Bullace 
Cheeses  intended  for  dessert,  the  blanched  kernels  of  the 
fruit  may  be  added ;  but  they  are  best  omitted  £ix>m  those 
destined  to  the  sick*room.  They  might  choke  the  patient 
who  sucked  a  piece  of  the  cheese  to  moisten  his  mouth 
in  the  course  of  the  night 

To  blanche  those  kemelsy  as  well  as  cdmondsj  walnuts^ 
&C.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them;  let  them  steep  a 
few  minutes,  and  their  skins  will  be  easily  slipped  off  by 
the  fingers. 

Preserved  Cucumbers  (Swed),  Choose  small,  short, 
well-shaped,  half-grown  cucumbers.  Throw  them  into 
scalding  water,  and  let  them  boil  (not  tender)  three  or 
four  minutes.  Take  them  out,  pierce  them  with  a  needle 
in  three  or  four  places,  and  let  them  drain.  Weigh 
them :  for  every  pound,  allow  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a 
pint  of  water.  Put  all  in  a  stew-pan,  with  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  and  a  stick  of  ginger.  When  it  once  boils  up, 
let  it  stand  for  five  minutes  simmering  at  the  side  of 
the  stove.  Take  out  the  cucumbers  with  a  spoon,  put 
them  in  a  jar,  pour  the  syrup  over  them  after  removing 
any  scum,  and  leaving  any  sediment  there  may  be.  Let 
them  so  remain,  close  covered,  three  or  four  days.  Then 
arrange  the  cucumbers,  one  by  one,  in  the  jar  in  which 
they  are  finally  to  remain.  Give  the  syrup  another  boil- 
ing and  skimming,  pour  it  over  them,  tie  bladder  over 
the  top  of  the  jar,  and  keep  in  a  cool  closet. 

It  wiU  be  well  to  look  to  them  frequently,  especially 


HOBS  B'cEUYBES.  101 

at  first,  to  see  that  the  syrap  does  not  ferment.  If  it 
show  signs  of  doing  so,  bj  frothing,  forming  bubbles, 
and  emitting  a  peculiar  smell,  it  must  be  boiled  over 
again. 

Melons^  not  fully  ripe,  sliced,  with  the  seeds  removed^ 
but  the  rind  remaining  (thin-rinded  varieties  are  prefer- 
able), and  treated  as  above,  make  a  very  nice  sweet  pre- 
serve for  the  break&st-table. 

Apple  Butter  (American).  Fill  a  large  stew-pan 
with  peeled,  quartered,  and  cored  apples.  Spice  with 
cloves,  allspice,  and  cinnamon ;  being  careful  not  to  let 
one  spice  predominate  over  the  other.  Cover  with  good 
sweet  cider,  and  boil  slowly,  mashing  with  a  wooilen 
spoon,  until  the  whole  becomes  a  dark-brown  jam,  with 
no  more  juice  remaining  than  suffices  to  keep  it  soft  and 
buttery. 

Clouted  Cream*  **  I  must  not  quit  Devonshire  with- 
out describing  the  Clouted  Cream,  which  is  peculiar  to 
the  West  of  England.  The  milk  is  suffered  to  stand  in  a 
bell- metal  vessel  four-and-twenty  hours ;  it  is  then  placed 
over  a  small  wood  fire,  so  that  the  heat  shall  be  very 
gradually  communicated  to  it.  Afler  it  has  been  over 
the  fire  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  is  approaching 
to  the  state  of  simmering^  the  vessel  is  struck  every  now 
and  then  with  the  knuckle,  or  is  very  carefully  watched. 
As  soon  as  it  ceases  to  ring,  or  the  first  bubble  appears, 
a  slight  agitation  or  simmering,  previous  to  boiling,  has 
commenced ;  and  the  secret  of  the  preparation  is  that  tliis 
simmering  shall  not  proceed  to  boiling.  The  milk  is 
immediately  removed  from  the  fire,   and  set  by  for 


102  HOBS  P'OSXTYBES. 

twenty-four  hours  more.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  all  the 
cream  will  have  arisen^  and  be  thick  enough  to  cut  with 
a  knife.  It  is  then  carefully  skimmed  off.  This  is  a 
great  luxury  with  coffee  or  with  tarts,  and  the  Devon- 
^hire  strawberries  and  cream  need  no  praise. 

^^  The  dairy-people  in  these  districts  say,  that  it  is 
the  most  profitable  way  of  treating  the  milk :  that  five 
pounds  of  butter  can  be  obtained  from  a  given  quantity, 
where  only  four  would  be  yielded  by  the  ordinary 
method ;  and  that  the  butter  is  more  saleable,  on  ac- 
count of  the  pleasant  taste  it  has  acquired,  and  w*hicli 
even  its  occasional  slight  smoky  flavour  scarcely  impairs. 
The  milk  is  proportionably  impoverished ;  but  it  also  has 
gained  a  taste  which  renders  it  more  grateful  to  the  pigs: 
while  it  never  scours  them,  but  removes  the  diarrhoea 
produced  by  other  food.  (A  hint  for  humans,  as  well  as 
for  pigs.)  The  skim-milk  cheese  must,  however,  be 
abandoned ;  or  if  a  little  is  made,  it  is  exceedingly  poor 
and  tasteless." — YoucUt^s  Cattle, 

Besides  the  above,  many  little  things  which,  althoi^h 
important  items  on  the  breakfast,  lunch,  and  dinner 
tables,  can  only  be  considered  as  Hora  <3C(Euvre8y  will 
be  found  under  the  heads  to  which  they  respectively 
belong. 


SAUOI&  103 


VI. 

SAUCES. 

One  of  the  best  sances  is  pleasant  companionship.  A 
kind  word  will  stir  np  the  dormant  appetite,  while  a 
harsh  one  will  extingoish  it;  and,  what  is  worse,  will 
check  the  digestion  of  nutriment  already  taken.  Such 
sauce  may  be  regarded  as  Moral  Sauce. 

Material  Sauces  belong  to  two  classes :  those  which 
accompany  dishes  on  their  first  presentation ;  and  those 
to  which  the  duty  falls  of  flattering  our  organs  of  taste, 
and  giving  to  warmed-up  meats  the  relish  of  freshness. 
The  latter,  elBTecting  a  sort  of  metamorphosis,  belong, 
perhaps,  more  appropriately  to  the  Chapter  on  Made 
Dishes.  Nevertheless,  some  of  them  will  be  introduced 
here,  being  great  auxiliaries  to  the  cook,  and  meriting 
her  thoughtful  and  patient  attention.  Nor  is  it  worth 
while  being  stingy  with  ingredients,  whose  cost,  after 
all,  is  trifling,  while  their  efiect  is  great. 

We  will  begin  with  the  simplest  sauces,  which  are 
not  the  least  usefuL 

Butter  Meltedf  or  Oiled  Butter j  is  more  employed  on 
the  Continent  than  in  England,  to  eat  with  vegetables, 
as  asparagus  and  Jerusalem  artichokes,  or  with  boiled 
fish,  as  skate,  scalded  whiting,  and  so  on.  Instead  of  this, 
toe  use  a  slice  of  ^/{f  butter,  which  abstracts  heat  from 


104  SAUCES. 

the  portion  of  eatable  to  which  it  is  applied ;  whereas, 
by  using  butter  melted,  the  morsel  reaches  the  mouth 
as  warm  as  when  it  was  laid  on  the  plate.  French  cooks 
mosdj  serve  vegetables  with  some  sauce  or  seasoning, 
and  not  plainly  boiled  in  water,  as  with  us.  Nothing 
can  give  less  trouble  than  this  sauce.  Warm  your  sauce- 
boat  in  warm  water ;  wipe  it  dry  :  put  in  the  quantity 
of  butter  required,  and  set  it  to  melt  and  heat,  eitlier  on 
the  hot  plate  or  in  the  warm-water  bath. 

Melted  Butter  (which  is  not  exactly  what  its  name 
implies)  is  the  foundation  of  many  English  sauces,  and, 
in  its  simplest  form,  is  an  indispensable  accompaniment 
to  many  dishes  that  daily  appear  upon  a  good  plain 
English  table.  On  the  Continent,  if  you  ask  for  melted 
butter,  they  will  give  you  what  you  do  not  want,  namely, 
the  above,  or  butter  simply  melted  and  changed  into  oil 
by  heat  This  latter,  with  a  little  vinegar,  sometimes  with 
the  addition  of  spice  and  chopped  herbs  and  onions,  is  a 
favourite  sauce  with  fish,  game,  small  birds,  chops,  and 
steaks.  Butter  thus  oiled  is  mostly  disliked  in  England, 
though  a  taste  for  it  is  soon  acquired.  Economical  house-* 
keepers  will  not  encourage  it,  as  the  article,  in  this  form, 
is  apt  to  be  wastefully  consumed.  Abroad,  to  get  the 
preparation  which  comes  the  nearest  to  English  melted 
butter,  you  must  ask  for  sauce  blanche^  or  "  white 
sauce." 

The  old-fashioned  way  of  making  melted  butter  is  to 
put  some  cold  water  into  a  saucepan,  dust  a  little  flour 
into  it,  and  drop  in  a  lump  of  butter  of  a  size  in  propor- 
tion to  the  goodness  or  richness  required.    Keep  stirring 


on  the  fire  always  one  way,  to  prevent  the  flour  ^^gP^j 
knotting  and  the  butter  from  oiling.  When  it  boils  x^^^ 
it  is  enough,  and  may  be  immediately  poured  into  ?®" 
sauce-tureen  for  serving.  * 

A  quicker  and  surer  way  (because  it  never  oils) 
is  to  work  the  flour  into  the  butter  with  a  knife  or  a 
spoon.  Have  ready  at  hand  some  bciling  water;  stir 
in  upon  the  butter  and  flour  a  sufficient  quantity  of  this ; 
pour  it  into  the  saucepan,  and  just  let  it  boil  up, 
N.B.  Cold  melted  butfcer,  not  stale,  is  often  useful  for 
thickening. 

Melted  BtUierj  Irish  Fashiorij  is  simply  made  by 
melting  the  butter  in  milk,  without  the  addition  of  any 
flour. 

While  Sauce,  of  the  English  cooks,  is  melted  butter 
made  with  milk  instead  of  water.  If  it  is  wanted  par- 
ticularly rich,  cream  is  used  instead  of  mQk.  Take  care 
of  burning  and  boiling  over. 

Siceet  Sauce,  to  be  eaten  with  puddings,  is  melted 
butter,  with  the  addition  of  a  little  sugar,  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  and  half  a  glass  of  brandy.  You  may  coloiur  sweet 
sauce  by  the  addition  of  currant  jelly. 

For  Oyster  Sauce,  first  open  your  fish,  cutting  oif 
their  beards  during  the  process,  and  halving  the  oysters 
if  they  are  above  the  middle  size.  Carefully  preserve 
the  liquor  that  comes  from  them.  Put  the  oysters  into 
one  basin  and  the  beards  into  another ;  from  these  latter, 
a  considerable  quantity  of  liquor  will  drain,  and  may  be 
added  to  that  which  came  from  out  the  shells.  Then 
proceed  as  for  melted  butter,  using  the  oyster  liquor 


204  SAUCES. 

^e  /^^  of  water,  and  supply  the  deficiency  with  a 
\)y/le  salt  and  water.  If  the  sance  is  to  be  served  with 
fsh,  or  boiled  chicken,  put  in  a  Utile  pounded  mace  and 
grated  nutmeg ;  if  with  beef-steak,  a  couple  of  pinches 
of  scraped  horse-radish.  As  soon  as  the  sauce  boils  up, 
throw  in  the  oysters,  and  set  the  saucepan  on  one  side^ 
to  let  them  get  well  heated  throughout.  The  oysters 
must  not  be  bailed  in  the  sauce ;  if  they  were,  they  would 
turn  out  tough  and  leatheiy.  Take  care  not  to  be  stingy 
in  respect  to  tlie  number  of  oysters  you  put  into  a  given 
quantity  of  sauce.  Almost  every  one  eats  of  this  con- 
diment when  presented  at  table ;  and  it  is  better  to  give 
plain  melted  butter,  than  to  serve  oyster  sauce  in  which 
the  oysters  shout  to  each  other,  like  a  straggling  party 
lost  in  a  wood,  "  Whereabouts  are  you  to  be  found  ?" 
Such  sauce  reminds  one  of  the  schoolboy's  conundrum, 
*'  How  to  make  plum-pudding  without  plums  ?"  Answer, 
after  giving  it  up,  "  Put  in  a  plum." 

Cockle  Sauce,  This  preparation,  though  much  less 
generally  known  than  oyster  sauce,  holds  a  place  only 
second  to  it  on  the  list  of  zests  composed  of  shell-fish* 
Cockles  are  found  on  our  sandy  coasts ;  carriers'  carts, 
and  still  more  railways,  assist  in  their  distribution  over 
the  country ;  and  we  strongly  recommend  those  who  are 
ignorant  of  them  in  this  form  to  make  the  following 
experiment : 

Well  wash  the  cockles.  Cover  them  with  salt  and 
water  o(  about  the  same  saltness  as  sea-water,  but  less 
so,  rather  than  more ;  too  much  salt  makes  the  cockles 
shrink  instead  of  plumping.     Let  them  lie  in  this  an 


SAUCES.  107 

hour  or  two  to  discharge  their  sand  and  grit;  if  all  night, 
and  in  merely  brackish  water,  so  mnch  the  better.  When 
yon  want  to  make  year  sanoe,  half  fill  a  large  sauce- 
pan or  stew-pan  that  has  a  close-fitting  lid  with  cockleS| 
without  the  least  drop  of  water  to  them,  and  set  it  on  a 
brisk  fire.    Keep  the  lid  down  dose ;  give  them  a  shake, 
and  put  them  on  the  fire  another  minute  or  two.     Then 
pour  them  all  out  into  a  dish.     Pick  out  with  a  fork 
^Jbe  ^^  meats"  of  such  cockles  as  are  opened,  and  put 
hem  aside  into  a  basin.    Betum  the  unopened  ones  to 
106  ^  saucepan,  and  hustle  them  again  over  the  fire ;  but 
e  very  careful  not  to  overdo  them.     Let  the  liquor 
'^irhich  comes  from  the  cockles  stand  a  minute  or  two  to 
^^  3ettle,  and  with  the  clear  portion  of  it,  instead  of  water, 
^    make  some  melted  butter.     Meanwhile,  dust  over  your 
cockles  a  little  pepper,  more  pounded  mace,  and  an 
abundant  grating  of  the  best  nutmeg  you  can  procure. 
When  the  butter  boils  up,  dash  in  the  cockles,  and  let 
them  simmer  gently,  till  you  judge  they  are  thoroughly 
heated.     There  ought  to  be  sufficient  cockles  at  least 
to  half  fill  the  sauce-boat  in  which  they  are  served. 

Parsley  Saticey  or  Parsley  and  Butter.  Take  a  few 
leaves  of  young,  bright-green,  fi*esh-gathered  parsley. 
The  plain-leaved  answers  as  well  for  this  purpose  as  the 
curled  variety,  which  may  be  reserved  for  garnishing* 
Chop  them  tolerably  fine,  though  they  need  not  be 
minced  into  minute  portions.  Make  the  required  quan- 
tity of  melted  butter.  When  it  is  about  to  boil  over, 
throw  in  the  chopped  parsley,  and  keep  it  boiling  as  fast 
as  you  dare  for  one  or  two  minutes.     This,  and  making 


108  BAUOES* 

the  melted  butter  with  Boft  water,  will  keep  the  parsley 
a  brilliant  green.  Parsley  sauoe  is  mostly  served  widi 
boiled  fowls  and  turkeys. 

When  boiled  fowls  or  turkey  come  from  table,  cut 
up  what  remains  into  joints,  arrange  them  neatly  on 
a  fresh  dish,  and  pour  some  parsley  sauce  over  the 
whole.  You  will  thus  have  a  presentable  dish  for  sup* 
per,  or  for  to-morrow's  breakfast. 

For  Dried  Parsley  (so  usefrd  for  winter  use).  Sage 
Powder^  Marjoram  Powder ^  &c.,  see  Elements,  p.  66. 

For  Fennel  Sauce^  select  a  good-sized  bunch  oi  young 
fennel-leaves,  gathered  from  the  extremities  of  the 
shoots.  Boil  them  galloping,  for  half  an  hour,  in  soft 
water,  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt  in  it  Chop  them  fine, 
and  throw  them  into  boiling  melted  butter ;  which  boil 
for  a  minute  afterwards.  Fennel  Sauce  ought  to  be 
even  more  green-coloured,  and  contain  a  greater  propor- 
tion of  the  herb,  than  Parsley  Sauce.  This  is  mostly 
employed  as  an  accompaniment  to  mackarel;  but  it  is 
also  good  with  salmon,  skate,  gray  mullet,  or  other  ftdl- 
flavoured  fish. 

Caper  Sauce*  Throw  into  melted  butter  a  good  des- 
sert-spoonful, or  more,  of  capers,  with  their  vinegar; 
give  them  a  boil  up  afterwards.  The  English  use  this 
principally  to  eat  with  boiled  mutton ;  but  abroad,  it  is 
a  very  general  favourite  with  boiled  fish — ^with  cod,  firesh 
herring,  salt  fish,  and  especially  with  turbot,  brill,  and 
skate.  Good  substitutes  for  capers  are  made  by  chop- 
ping up  various  pickles,  and  mixing  them  with  the  butter 
instead.    The  green  seeds  and  flower-buds  of  nasturtium 


8AUCES.  109^ 

(tropcBobim)  are  in  greatest  request.  Next  to  them 
come  kidnej-beans  and  gherkins*  All  these  sour  sanoes 
maj  have  a  boil  up,  and  require  to  be  flavoured  with  a 
sufficient  dash  of  their  own  vinegar. 

Small  capers  are  most  esteemed.  There  is  a  large 
species  of  Euphorbium^  or  Spurge,  frequently  grown  in 
farmers'  gardens  as  an  ornamental  plant,  and  foolishly 
called  '^  the  caper  plant/'  because  its  unripe  seeds  bear 
a  very  slight  resemblance  to  capers.  These  green  seeds 
exude  a  milky  juice,  which  is  poisonous.  They  should 
never  be  used  as  pickles.  The  unopened  flower-buds  of 
the  Marsh  Marigold  (^CaUha  palustris)  have  been  recom- 
mended as  substitutes  for  capers ;  but  they  are  nauseous 
to  the  taste,  and  probably  unwholesome,  belonging  as 
they  do  to  a  natural  femily  remarkable  for  its  acrid 
qualities. 

Bichamel  Sauce.  This  might  be  called  Cream  Sauce; 
for  it  is  based  on  cream  flavoured  with  herbs  and  spices. 
It  is  also  the  same  as  the  sauce  called  Veloutd^  with 
the  addition  of  parsley  and  some  one  or  more  of  the 
onion  tribe.  Crime  Vdoutde  is  French  for  clouted 
cream. 

Melt  some  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  and 
tosd  in  it  a  few  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  parsley  and 
chives,  with  a  slice  or  two  each  of  ham  and  veal.  When 
br6wned,  moisten  with  broth,  and  let  it  simmer  gently 
for  a  good  hour. 

Then  take  out  the  meat,  add  half  a  pint  or  so  of  good 
sweet  cream ;  simmer  for  another  quarter  of  an  hour, 
stirring  with  a  spoon  all  the  while.     When  of  the 


110  BAUOES. 

re<pired  consistenoy,  it  is  done,  and  may  be  used  with 
any  kind  of  meat  except  game. 

Bkhamelj  Meager j  for  Abstinence  Dishes.  Incorporate 
a  couple  of  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  quart  of  cream ; 
put  it  in  a  stew-pan  over  a  brisk  fire,  stirring  to  prevent 
its  sticking  to  the  bottom. 

In  another  stew-pan  put  two  or  three  minced  shallots, 
a  sliced  carrot,  grated  nutmeg,  whole  pepper,  bouquet 
complete,  and  a  few  mushrooms.  Boil  these  thoroughly 
in  a  pint  of  water.  Then  add  your  thickened  cream  to 
this  vegetable  broth,  stirring  it  in  gradually  to  prevent 
its  curdling.  Then  strain  it  through  a  cuUender,  and 
keep  warm  till  wanted  in  a  hot-water  bath. 

N.6.  In  all  sauces  which  are  not  meant  to  be 
absolutely  white,  mushrooms,  which  often  are  not  to  be 
had,  may  be  replaced  by  mushroom  ketchup. 

Brown  Biclwmel  Sauce.  Cut  into  dice  or  small 
pieces  some  bacon,  some  lean  veal,  a  carrot,  a  turnip, 
and  two  or  three  onions;  fry  them  in  a  little  butter 
at  the  bottom  of  your  stew-pan.  When  well  brown,  stir 
in  a  little  flour ;  moisten  gradually  with  good  broth  or 
stock,  and  a  glass  of  cream ;  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
cloves,  nutmeg,  thyme,  bay-leaf,  and  parsley.  Boil  for 
an  hour,  and  strain  through  a  fine-pierced  cullender. 
Keep  this  sauce  rather  thin,  so  that  the  ingredients  may 
have  time  to  be  thoroughly  stewed. 

White  Bechamel  Sauce.  Boil  in  a  quart  of  water  a 
sliced  carrot,  a  few  shallots,  grated  nutmeg,  whole  pepper, 
some  mushrooms,  and  the  bunch  of  herbs  complete. 

While  these  are  cooking,  mix  in  another  stew-pan 


SAUCES.  Ill 

two  spoonfiils  of  flour  with  three  pints  of  cream  or  good 
milk.  Set  it  on  a  brisk  fire,  and  stir  without  ceasing, 
to  prevent  burning  and  boiling  over. 

When  your  cream  is  nicely  reduced  and  thickened, 
incorporate  with  it  the  above  preparation,  pouring  it  in 
little  by  little,  so  as  not  to  turn  the  cream.  Strain  the 
whole  through  a  sieve,  and  keep  it  hot  in  a  water  bath 
until  wanted* 

Mushroom  Sauce.  Into  your  melted  butter  put  a 
good  table-spoonfiil^  of  pickled  mushroom  buttons  (which 
yon  can  buy  at  the  grocers'),  with  the  vinegar  that 
belongs  to  them,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  more. 

Matrimony  Saucey  or  Yorkshire  Dip.  Melted  butter 
made  ^^  good"  with  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough 
vinegar  and  crystallised  sugar  (or  sugar-candy)  to  give  it 
a  decided  piquancy.  It  is  nice  with  batter  pudding, 
steamed  dumpling,  and  the  like,  and  is  the  sauce  to  eat 
with  Brusseb  sprouts,  asparagus,  brocoli,  Scotch  kale, 
early  York  cabbage,  white-hearted  Savoy,  or  other  deli- 
cate  winter  greens. 

Fish-liver  Sauce.  Boil  fish-liver  (skate  is  the  best, 
with  whatever  fish  it  is  to  be  eaten)  in  strong  salt  and 
water,  until  quite  firm.  Cut  it  into  small  pieces ;  throw 
it  into  melted  butter,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dash  of 
vinegar.     Boil  up,  and  serve  piping  hot. 

Fowlr-liver  Sauce^  for  Boast  or  Grilled  Fowls.  Boil 
the  livers  of  fowls,  or  of  ducks  or  geese,  in  salt  and 
water,  until  they  are  tender,  not  hard.  Chop  rather, 
but  not  too^  small.  Throw  them  into  melted  butter,  with 
(for  an  ordinary  sauce-boat)  a  tablespoonful  of  ketchup, 


112  SAUCES. 

and  the  same  of  gherkin  or  other  pickle  vinegar.  Boil 
npy  and  serve.  If  the  ketchup  is  highly  seasoned,  very 
little  pepper  and  salt  will  be  wanted. 

Shrimp  Sauce.      Three  species  of  shrimp  are  eaten 
in  Great  Britain ;  the  prawn,  the  red  shrimp,  and  the 
common  brown  shrimp.     The  first  is  never  used  for 
sauce ;  the  second,  less  common  than  the  third,  is  often 
preferred  to  it  by  ladies,  invalids,  and  persoiis  of  delicate 
appetite.     It  is  caught  in  deeper  water,  and  further  out 
to  sea.     A  very  large  supply  comes  from  Great  Yar- 
mouth, in  Norfolk,  where  its  presence  in  the  Roads  there 
was  accidentally  discovered  some  sixty  or  seventy  years 
ago.     Shrimp-eaters  are  well  aware  of  the  great  differ- 
ence both  in  flavour  and  appearance  between  the  red 
and  the  brown  species.     Both  are  caught  at  Great  Yar- 
mouth, but  in  very  difierent  localities.     The  brown  ot 
^^  flat-nosed"  kind  is  taken  along  shore  at  ebb-tide,  in 
the  harbour,  and  in  the  inland  waters,  and  is  more  easily 
obtainable,  and  for  a  much  longer  period  of  the  year. 

The  present  mode  and  locality  of  the  red-shrimp 
fishery  was  a  lucky  hit  made  by  some  boats  that  were 
employed  in  recovering  lost  anchors  by  a  process  which 
is  called  ^^  sweeping."  Two  boats,  at  a  certain  distance 
from  each  other,  proceed  up  and  down  the  Beads,  having 
a  loose  rope  suspended  between  them,  at  the  middle  of 
which  is  fastened  a  large  fish-basket  or  ^^  swill,"  partly 
laden  with  stones  to  sink  iL  By  these  means,  the  place 
of  the  anchor  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea  is  ascertained 
and  it  is  then  raised  and  restored  to  society.  But,  in 
particular  states  of  the  tide,  it  was  found  that  the  swill, 


SAUCES.  113 

when  brought  to  the  snrface,  was  filled  with  red  Bhrimps. 
The  men  took  the  hint,  kept  their  own  counsel,  got  nets 
made,  and,  for  a  time,  had  the  first  gathering  of  the 
banrest,  soon  to  be  shared  with  others. 

Yon  are  supposed  to  have  firesh-boiled  shrimps,  skill- 
fully cooked  bj  the  fisherman's  wife  in  plain  salt  and 
water,  and  not  ruined,  as  to  their  natural  flavour,  with 
bay-leaves,  or  any  other  ingredient  of  the  Court-Bouillon. 
See  Elements,  p.  77. 

Have  two  small  basins  before  you*  Pick  the  shrimps, 
putting  the  meats  into  one  basin  and  ihe  ahellB  into  an^ 
ther.  Boil  the  shells  in  water,  until  you  have  extracted 
the  goodness  from  them.  Strain  the  liquor  through  a 
coarse  cullender,  simply  to  remove  the  shells.  With  this 
liquor  make  melted  butter,  ^'  good"  of  the  butter ;  into 
it  throw  the  picked  shrimp -meats;  let  them  warm 
through  half  a  minute,  and  you  have  shrimp  sauce 
ffenuine.  Essence  of  Shrimps  affords  a  substitute  which 
certainly  is  better  than  nothing. 

Anchovy  Sauce*  Into  enough  rich  melted  butter  to 
fill  a  sauce-boat,  stir  a  dessert-spoonfid  of  essence  of 
anchovies,  or  a  small  lump  of  anchovy  paste.  You  may 
throw  in,  if  you  like  (but  it  is  a  needless  extra),  a  couple 
of  anchovy-fillets,  preserved  in  oil  (to  be  bought  at  the 
Italian  warehouse),  cut  small.  This  sauce  is  excellent 
not  only  with  fish,  but  with  a  nice  tender  steak. 

Egg  Sauce,  for  salt  fish,  cods'  tongues,  cods'  sounds, 
and  other  boiled  fish.  For  sauce  for  half  a  dozen  per- 
sons, boil  three  eggs  <me  hour.  This  is  an  American 
wrinkle,  well  worth  picking  up.   '^  It  may  seem  strange," 

I 


114  SAUOES. 

Brother  Jonathan  innooentlj  remarks,  ^^  but,  for  some 
reason,  an  egg  boiled  an  hoar  is  quite  different  from 
one  boiled  five  minutes."  When  the  eggs  are  quite 
cold,  chop  them  fine,  and  throw  them  into  melted  butter 
which  is  thick  of  the  butter  and  thin  of  the  flour.  A 
good  dash  of  cream  does  no  harm.     Boil  up  and  serve. 

If  the  fish  with  which  the  egg  sauce  is  to  be  eaten 
has  not  been  salted,  it  will  be  well  to  put  a  lUtle  salt  in 
the  sauce. 

Lobster  Sauce.  Pick,  by  preference,  the  claws,  large 
and  small,  and  the  head  of  a  lobster.  If  thej  do  not 
yield  enough,  you  must  have  recourse  to  the  taiL  Chop 
them  tolerably  small,  without  actually  mincing  them« 
If  there  is  spawn  to  your  lobster,  you  may  add  that  too, 
crushed  or  uncrushed.  It  will  considerably  improve  the 
appearance,  but  not  much  the  flavour,  of  your  sauce ;  for, 
to  get  rid  of  the  sand  in  it^  which  would  spoil  every  thing ^ 
you  must  wash  the  spawn  until  you  have  rinsed  nearly 
all  taste  out  of  it. 

Put  all  this  into  rich  melted  butter,  with  a  leetU 
lemon-juice,  a  Uetle  essence  of  anchovy,  and  a  leetle 
cayenne.  The  great  point  is  not  to  overpower  the 
natural  flavour  of  the  lobster.  Boil  up,  stirring  well. 
This  sauce  should  be  pinky,  and  thick  with  lobster-flesh. 
The  green  contents  of  the  head  must  be  scrupulously 
put  in. 

N.B.  Ifyaa  have  boiled  the  lobster  yourself  y  after  picking 
the  flesh  fi-om  the  shell,  you  may  pound  the  latter,  boil 
it,  and  make  your  sauce  with  the  liquor  strained  away. 
But  if  you  have  bought  the  lobster  ready-boiled,  with  its 


SAUCES,  115 

shell  smeared  with  oil  or  butter  to  improve  its  looks,  it 
may  be  more  prudent  not  to  use  the  shell-boilings. 

Ix)bster  Sauce^  toithaut  Ldbtter.  The  Doctor,  how- 
ever much  inclined  to  yield  to  other  people's  tastes,  can 
never  read  a  formula  for  Lobster  Sauce  without  feeling 
a  pang  of  regret  A  good  lobster,  he  holds,  is  too  good 
a  thing  to  hold  a  candle  to  any  other  fish,  be  he  even 
torbot,  sturgeon,  or  salmon.  When  he  says  lobster, 
he  does  not  mean  lamgouaU^  or  sea  crawfisL  You  may 
put  him  to  whatever  employment  you  like ;  but  even  a 
lobster's  empty  shell,  garnished  with  parsley,  is  some- 
times served,  merely  to  adorn  the  table  on  which  his 
flesh  appears  concealed  by  salad. 

Whenever  a  lobster  (under  sentence  of  degradation 
to  sauce)  reaches  the  Doctor,  he  invariably  restores  it 
to  its  native  digniiy,  and  has  it  served  with  all  the 
honours.  Nay,  he  even  ventures  to  aver,  that  better 
sauces  than  lobster  sauce  exist,  both  for  turbot  and 
salmon,  and  which  bring  out  more  efiectually  the  pecu- 
liar sapidity  of  each.  But  as  it  is  useless  to  run  counter 
to  the  prevailing  current  of  public  opinion,  and  as  there 
are  occasions  when  society  exacts  the  presence  of  lob- 
ster sauce,  in  order  to  obey  the  letter  of  the  law,  and 
at  the  same  time  save  your  lobster,  masters  and  mis- 
tresses,  do  this : 

Take  cold  turbot,  not  overdone.  If  you  have  no 
turbot,  boil  a  thick,  fleshy  sole.  While  hot,  remove 
the  flesh  from  the  bones ;  smear  that  flesh,  on  both  sides^ 
with  essence  of  anchovies,  or  anchovy  paste,  or  essence 
of  shrimps.     Let  it  cool.     Cut  it  up,  not  too  small. 


116  8AUOB0. 

into  dice  and  pieces  resembling  those  which  serve  for 
real  lobster  sauoa  Dast  with  a  leetle  very  finely  pow- 
dered sugar.  Make  the  sauce  itself  exactly  as  if  there 
were  no  deception  in  the  matter ;  which  deception  will 
be  aided  if  you  have  a  little  large-grained  fish-roe  (as 
pike  or  salmon)  to  mix  with  your  ingredients.  Throw 
in  your  disguised  turbot  or  sole^  heat^  and  serve,  and 
you  will  take  in  the  very  Old  Deceiver  himself. 

In  the  country,  a  very  likely  occurrence  is  the  arrival 
of  a  turbot  at  a  moment  when  the  Cook  cannot  pro- 
cure the  material  for  making  Mock  Lobster  Sauce. 
To  provide  against  such  vexations,  it  is  prudent  to  keep 
in  the  house  a  few  boxes  of  Norwegian  ^^  Hummer- 
nudler,"  or  Lobster  Powder,  which  will  render  good  ser- 
vice on  emergencies.  The  contents  of  a  quarter-pound 
box,  seasoned  as  usual,  after  steeping  in  milk,  will  make 
a  tureen  of  excellent  real  Lobster  Sauce. 

Grooseberry  Saiiee  (eaten  with  Boiled  Maokarel  and 
Roast  Pork,  and,  in  America,  with  Boiled  Lamb)  is 
merely  green  gooseberries,  boiled  or  ^^  quaddled''  in  as 
little  water  as  is  sufficient  to  keep  them  fi*om  burning. 
They  may  be  served,  either  whole  or  mashed,  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  sugar,  or  without  it.  Some  add  a 
little  nutmeg,  but  they  are  just  as  firequently  presented 
plain. 

Apple  Sauce  J  to  be  eaten  with  Boast  Groose  and  Boast 
Pork.  Peel,  quai-ter,  and  core  your  apples.  Boil  them 
in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  or,  better,  of  cider,  with  a 
blade  of  mace  and  a  few  doves.  When  tender,  mash 
them  fine  with  a  little  powder  sugar. 


SAUCES.  117 

Wine  Sauce^  for  Boast  Venison  or  Mutton.  A 
quarter  of  a  pint  each  of  port  wine  and  good  mntton 
broth,  and  a  table-spoonftd  of  currant  jelly.  When  near 
boiling,  take  o£F  the  fire,  and  thicken  with  the  yolk  of 
an  egg. 

Brain  Sauce.  Wash  the  brains  thoroughly  from  the 
blood  they  contain ;  tie  them  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  them 
half  an  hour.  Turn  them  out  of  the  cloth  into  a  basin, 
and  braid  them  well  with  a  spoon  with  some  dried  sage 
in  powder,  a  little  piece  of  butter,  and  some  pepper 
and  salt  Have  ready  a  little  good  melted  butter ;  stir 
it  in  with  the  brains,  warm  it  up,  and  it  is  ready  to 
serve.  The  great  thing*  is  to  have  the  brains  fresh ; 
therefore,  if  the  weather  is  at  all  doubtful,  the  brains 
had  better  be  taken  out  of  the  calf  s  or  sheep^s  head, 
and  scalded  at  once,  as  soon  as  the  butcher  brings  it 
to  the  house.  Brain  Cakes,  which  may  be  considered 
as  brain  sauce  in  another  form,  are  brains  mixed  up 
with  powdered  sage,  pepper,  floured  and  fried. 

Bread  Saucsj  for  Turkey,  Pheasant,  and  Partridge. 
Grate  into  your  sauce-tureen  stale  crumb  of  bread,  to 
one-quarter,  or  at  most  one-third,  of  its  depth.  Dust 
this  with  ground  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg ;  mix  well, 
but  lightly. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  milk  fresh  from  the  cow,  if  you 
can  get  it,  with  a  few  grains  of  salt  When  it  quite 
boils,  pour  it  over  the  bread-crumbs,  let  it  stand  on 
the  hot-plate  a  minute,  and  serve.  Young  cooks  are 
apt  to  put  too  much  bread  in  proportion  to  the  milk. 
It  absorbs  the  fluid,  and  becomes  thicker  and  thicker, 


118  SAUCES. 

even  after  it  is  on  the  table.    Bread  saaoe  should  neither  be 
liquid  nor  pasty«    Experience  will  teach  the  happy  mean. 

Instead  of  mixing  the  spice  with  the  grated  bread, 
whole  peppercorns  and  blades  of  mace  may  be  boiled 
with  the  milk ;  in  which  they  ought  to  stand  for  a  while, 
if  they  are  to  communicate  much  flavour.  The  Doctor 
thinks  it  an  improvement  to  boil  with  the  milk  a  large 
onion  sliced,  or  two  or  three  small  ones ;  or,  even  better, 
to  boil  in  the  milk,  until  tender,  an  onion  or  two, 
chopped  very  fine,  and  t^  let  them  mix  with  the  bread 
at  the  same  time  as  the  milk. 

Onion  Sauce.  Boil  onions  till  quite  tender ;  mash 
them  fine  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  lump  of  butter,  and  also  (if  to  be  served  with  boiled 
meats)  a  little  milk  or  cream.  Betum  to  the  saucepan, 
and  give  a  final  heating.  This  sauce  may  be  made 
smoother,  for  those  who  prefer  it,  by  squeezing  it 
through  a  large-holed  cullender.  It  is  not  every  one, 
however,  who  likes  what  he  eats  to  bear  the  traces 
of  such  lengthy  manipulation. 

Horse-radiah  Saucej  ^,  to  be  eaten  cold  with  hot 
Roast  Beef,  is  composed  of  cream,  a  little  salt  and 
vinegar,  and  horse-radish  scraped  very  fine.  It  should 
be  prepared  several  hours  before  wanted,  to  extract  the 
flavour  of  the  root. 

Another  mode  is,  to  scrape  a  stick  of  horse-radish 
clean,  to  cut  it  into  short  lengths,  and  boil  it  in  water 
until  quite  soft.  Then  add  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  cream. 
In  a  cool  place,  this  will  keep  two  or  three  days ;  in 
winter,  somewhat  longer. 


8AUCS&  119 

Hone-raditik  Sauce^  B  (Gkrman).  To  be  eaten 
with  boOed  Meat.  Do  not  scrape  the  horse-radiflh  until 
immediately  before  it  is  wanted.  Throw  it  into  boiling 
sweet  cream.  Add  a  litde  salt,  one  spoonfiil  of  sogar, 
a  few  currants,  and,  just  before  serving,  a  spoonful  of 
good  rich  gravy,  with  the  &t  belonging  to  it 

Be  cautious  in  your  dealinirs  with  horse-radish ;  it 

«...«  a.  -».„d.L.  Z!^  A.  .^^  ^, 

bring  on  unpleasant  sensations  for  three  or  four  days. 
A  dear  relative  of  the  Doctor^s,  whenever  roast  be^was 
served  at  her  table,  had  a  small  plate  of  scraped  horse- 
radish for  her  private  use,  of  which  she  used  to  tmeU 
only  while  eating  her  meat  It  was  an  application, 
though  with  a  different  view,  of  the  miser's  maxim,  ^^  Eat 
your  bread,  and  smell  of  your  cheese.'' 

Tomato  Sauce^  from  fresh  tomatos.  After  boiling 
until  quite  tender,  mash,  and  squeeze  through  an  iron- 
wire  sieve  fine  enough  to  intercept  the  skins  and  the 
seeds*  Boil  up  again,  adding  a  little  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt 

For  winter  use,  it  is  better  to  employ  imported  to- 
mato sauce,  sold  in  wide-mouthed  bottles.  Home-grown 
tomatos  are  valuable  as  supplying  an  elegant  dish  of 
vegetables ;  and  home-made  tomato  sauce  is  apt  not  to 
keep.  Tomato  sauce  goes  well  with  roast  mutton, 
mutton-chops,  hashed  calfs  head,  roast  veal  and  pork, 
veal  and  pork  cutlets. 

Mint  Sauce.  Pick  young  mint-leaves  from  off  the 
stem.  [When  spear  or  garden  mint  is  not  to  be  had, 
the  wild  peppermint  of  the  marshes  is  equally  aromatic] 


120  SAUCES. 

Chop  them  fine,  and  infuse  them  In  cold  vinegar,  with  a 
sufficiency  of  soft  sugar.  This  should  be  made  several 
hours  before  it  is  wanted ;  and,  if  kept  close  bottled  in  a 
cool  place,  will  continue  good  for  several  months.  It  is 
intended  for  roast  lamb,  but  is  equally  good  with  roast 
mutton  and  veal. 

Sweet^herb  Sauce^  for  boiled  calfs  head,  when  the 
brains,  instead  of  being  made  into  sauce,  accompany  the 
head  together  with  the  tongue.  Put  into  a  large  sauce- 
boat  parsley  and  chervil  minced  very  fine;  you  may 
add,  if  approved,  minced  chives,  tarragon,  marjoram, 
and  basil,  all  or  either.  Cover  with  cold  vinegar,  and 
let  infuse  two  or  three  hours. 

Universcd  Sauce.  Set  over  a  very  slow  fire  a  sauce* 
pan  containing  broth,  white  wine,  bay-leaves,  salt, 
pepper,  and  lemon-peel.  Let  it  simmer  (or  rather  make 
a  hot  infiision)  four  or  five  hours.  When  you  strain 
it  ofi*,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  bottle. 

Celery  Sauce^  for  boiled  turkey,  fowls,  ducks,  and 
geese.  Cut  the  white  parts  of  celery  into  half-inch 
lengths ;  boil  them  till  tender  in  some  light-coloured 
broth,  such  as  that  from  veal  or  chicken.  Take  out  the 
celery,  and  mince  it  fine  on  a  dish,  so  as  to  retain  all  the 
liquor  that  comes  from.  it. 

To  the  liquor  in  which  the  celery  has  been  boiled,  add 
milk  or  cream  and  a  little  flour,  to  make  a  White  Sauce. 
Season  quite  moderately  with  pepper  and  salt;  the 
flavour  of  the  celery  should  predominate.  Throw  in  the 
minced  celery,  stir  weU,  boil  up  for  a  minute  or  two, 
and  serve. 


SAUCES.  121 

Piqua»U  Sauce.  Make  melted  batter, — ^with  milk, 
if  for  white  meats ;  with  stock,  if  for  brown.  Add 
pepper  and  vinegar  according  to  the  degree  of  piquancy 
required.  The  latter  may  be  tarragon,  elder-flower,  or 
other  aromatised  vinegar.  Mustard  (the  least  dust  in 
the  world,  for  it  tries  irritable  stomachs)  may  be  also 
used  to  heighten  the  relish.  When  done,  take  off  the 
fire,  and  thicken  with  one  or  two  egg-yolks.  This  sauce 
should  be  thick,  and  very  smooih. 

Blanquette  SaucSy  for  warming  up  cold  meat  as  a 
Wkiie  Frieassee.  Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan.  As  it  melts,  stir  into  it  a  couple  of  spoon- 
fuls of  flour,  without  letting  it  brown.  Then,  little  by 
fittle,  and  continually  stirring,  add  boiling  water  until 
the  sauce  is  of  the  thickness  required.  Season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  Throw  in  small 
onions  and  button  mushrooms  (cooked  beforehand),  and 
then  put  in  the  meat  you  want  to  warm  up,  cut  into 
convenient-sized  pieces. 

Sauce  Paulettey  Chicken  Sauccy  is  used  for  all  sorts  of 
things  that  are  served  or  warmed  up  White.  It  is 
made  exactly  as  Blanquette  Sauce,  with  the  addition  of 
being  thickened  with  yolks  of  egg.     Example  : 

Calfs  Brains  a  la  Pculette.    Take  four  calTs  brains ; 
wash,  scald,  and  drain  them. 

Melt  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  stir  in  tho- 
roughly a  soup-spoonful  of  flour.  When  well  mixed, 
add  gradually,  stirring  all  the  while,  a  teacupful  of  clear 
broth  and  half  that  quantity  of  white  wine  and  water. 
Put  in,  first,  small  onions  and  mushrooms,  to  cook  till 


122  SAUCES. 

tender,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  then  the 
brains,  which  will  be  done  in  ten  minutes  or  a  quarteit 
of  an  hour.  Take  them  out,  and  arrange  them  on  a  cool 
disk  Thicken  the  sauce  with  yolk  of  egg,  stir  in  the 
juice  of  a  lemon,  pour  it  over  the  brains,  and  serve  hot 

Maitre  cCHStel  Sauce^  StewarcTs  Sauce^  Ay  is  nothing 
more  than  oiled  butter  mixed  up  with  chopped  parsley, 
pepper,  salt,  and  lemon-juice,  or  in  default  thereof  with 
a  dash  of  vinegar.  Nor  are  the  lemon-juice  or  vinegar 
always  employed. 

For  the  convenience  of  readiness,  you  may  prepare 
the  butter  thus  ;  it  will  be  at  hand  whenever  you  want 
to  do  any  thing  h  la  Maitre  d^ Hotel. 

Into  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  work  a 
heaped  table-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  the  juice  of 
two  lemons,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dust  of 
ground  white  pepper.  Braid  well  together,  and  keep 
cool  till  wanted. 

According  to  the  Doctor,  things  done  a  la  Maitre 
dT Hotel  are  no  great  things :  they  are  acceptable,  pass- 
able, by  way  of  a  change,  or  for  want  of  better ;  but  not 
things  to  beg  and  pray  for.     Example  : 

Potatoes  h  la  Maitre  d^HdteL  Slice  cold  potatoes, 
put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  the  above  sauce,  or  prepared 
butter ;  warm  through,  and  serve.  Tlie  same  pro- 
ceeding with  other  things — ^vegetables,  cold  fish,  meat, 
joints  of  fowl — warmed  up  h  la  Maitre  d^HdteL  A  better 
sauce  is : 

Sauce  Maitre  cCHStel  lidcy  Steu>ard*8  Sauce  thick" 
enedj  B.     Put  into  a  saucepan  a  tumbler  of  water,  a 


SAUCBS.  123 

spoonfiil  of  floor,  a  lump  of  batter,  chopped  parsley, 
and  chervil  or  chives,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  little  salt, 
and  a  few  peppercorns.  Bring  it  up  to  the  boiling  point 
graduallj,  never  ceasing  to  stir  it  in  the  same  direction. 
Example: 

SroUed  Mackarel  ^  la  Mattre  ^HdteL  Open  the 
fish  quite  flat  at  the  belly,  but  do  not  take  out  the 
backbone*  Wipe  them  dry  (not  washing  them)  inside 
and  out  Dost  the  inside  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put 
in  a  few  small  bits  of  butter.  Broil  them  first  on  the 
skinny,  and  then  on  the  fleshy,  sida  If  you  have  not  the 
means  of  broiling,  you  must  fiy.  Serve  with  the  above 
sauce  hot  in  a  tureen. 

Sauce  SoUandaise^  Dutch  Sauce  (excellent  and  very 
simple),  may  be  summed  up  thus  :  materials — butter, 
egg-yolks,  flour ;  process — stir,  stir,  stir !  This  is  one 
of  the  little  niceties  which  a  mistress  has  only  to  see  done 
once,  and  to  do  once  herself,  to  be  able  to  teach  it  to 
every  cook  it  may  be  her  destiny  to  have  to  instruct 

Although  Cookery-Books  are  extremely  usefiil  as 
remembrancers  and  for  reference,  the  best  book  alone 
will  not  sn£5oe  without  practical  instruction  in  the  kit-> 
chen.  Many  dishes  which  are  easy  to  prepare,  after  once 
their  preparation  has  been  witnessed,  would  puzzle  and 
discourage  novices  who  have  only  printed  directions  to 
follow.  Pastry  and  Confectionery  in  general,  and  cer-* 
tain  Sauces  in  particular,  are  especially  open  to  this 
observation. 

The  public  are  scarcely  sufiiciently  aware  that  there 
are  in  London  teachprs  of  cookery,  who,  at  moderate 


124  SAUCES. 

terms,  give  instmctions  in  the  art  of  preparing  the  less 
common  dishes,  with  their  respective  accompaniments. 
Three  addresses  shall  be  given,  as  a  hint,  from  the  Times  : 
16  Soho  Square ;  Lady  Snperintendent,  Mrs.  Langtoiu 
281  Begent  Street,  Oxford  Circus ;  Mrs.  MitchelL 
63  Mortimer  Street,  Circus,  Oxford  Street;  Felix 
Lavenue. 

Ude's  directions  for  Dutch  Sauce — more  intelligible 
than  is  his  wont — are  these : 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  teaspoonfiil  of  flour,  four  spoon- 
fuls of  elder  vinegar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh 
butter,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  and  a  little  salt  Put  it 
on  the  fire,  and  keep  continually  stirring  it.  When  it 
has  acquired  thickness  enough,  work  it  well,  that  you 
may  refine  it :  if  it  should  not  be  curdled,  you  have  no 
occasion  to  strain  it  through  a  tammy;  season  well,  and 
serve  it  up.  Some  people  do  not  like  elder  vinegar;  in 
that  case,  use  tarragon  or  plain  vinegar:  but  odorous 
vinegar  is  far  preferable. 

Dutch  Sauce  is  served  hot.  A  cold  sauce,  whose 
success  mainly  depends  on  the  sttrrin^,  and  which  every 
good  cook  ought  to  be  able  to  make  to  perfection,  is : 

Mayonnaise  Sauce.  Preliminary  N.B.  In  making 
any  cold  sauce  into  which  oil  enters,  be  careful  to  add 
it  little  by  little,  almost  drop  by  drop,  continuaUy  stirring 
all  the  while. 

Put  into  a  salad-bowl  (for  the  convenience  of  mixing) 
a  couple  of  egg-yolks,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  tarragon  vinegar.  [It  is  the  turagon  which  is  the 
secret  of  the  ^vour  of  the  Mayonnaisef  as  the  beating  is 


8AUGBS.  125 

of  its  creaminess.]  Mix  well  wilih  a  fork ;  drop  in  a* 
little  first-rate  olive  oil,  and  mix  again*  Bemember  that 
this  sauce,  to  have  it  delicate,  requires  a  large  amount  of 
patience ;  you  cannot  make  it  good  in  less  than  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  Keep  whisking  with  a  whisk,  or  beating 
with  a  fork ;  and  adding  first  a  little  salad-oil,  and  then  a 
little  tarragon  vinegar,  and  then  oil  and  vinegar  again, 
oontinnallj  whisking  and  beating  until  it  forms  a  white, 
smooth  sauce,  to  all  appearance  like  a  cream.  Coolness 
assists  the  making  of  this  sauce,  which  should  have  the 
lightness  of  froth  without  the  least  oiliness ;  in  fact,  no  one 
should  guess  that  oil  had  entered  into  its  composition. 

Directions  for  special  mayonnaises  will  not  be  given, 
because  the  putting  them  together  is  an  efibrt  of  taste 
which  must  be  seen  to  be  imitated.  The  principal  ar- 
ticles BO  served  are.  Lobster  and  Crab^  Cold  Fowl  or 
Winged  Game^  Cold  Salmon^  Tw*boty  Eel;  but  any  cold 
fish  or  delicate  meat  may  be  similarly  treated. 

The  usual  arrangement  of  a  mayonnaise  is :  Place 
your  article,  in  slices  or  small  joints,  in  the-centre  of  a 
dish,  perhaps  on  a  bed  of  the  most  delicate  salad  you 
can  get  (for  Salad  also  is  an  essential  ingredient  in 
a  Mayonnaise).  Cover  these,  partially  or  completely, 
with  the  Mayonnaise  Sauce.  Ghunish  the  whole,  in  the 
most  fanciful  way  you  can  devise,  with  the  hearts  of 
lettuces  cut  in  quarters,  crawfish,  prawns,  pickled 
shrimps,  strips  of  anchovy,  capers,  hard  eggs  in  quarters, 
olives  (with  their  kernels  removed),  pickled  beetroot, 
nasturtium  flowers,  bits  of  savoury  jelly,  bits  of  the 
article  of  which  the  Mayonnaise  consists ;  in  short,  with 


126  SAUCBS. 

anj  thing  that  can  add  to  the  elegance  and  pleasing' 
appearance  of  the  dish* 

Tartar  Saitce  belongs  to  the  same  class  as  MaytynawMe^ 
but  is  more  highly  seasoned  and  is  less  beaten  up. 

Put  into  your  salad-bowl  minced  parsley  and  chervil^ 
tarragon  and  chives,  pepper,  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  a  hard«* 
boiled  yolk  crushed,  two  raw  egg-yolks,  a  little  mustard^ 
and  a  few  chopped  gherkins  or  capers.  These  sea- 
sonings may  be  varied  according  to  taste.  Mix  well 
together;  add  tarragon  vinegar;  and  keep  dropping 
salad-oil  from  a  cruet  in  one  hand,  while  you  are 
mix-mix-mixing  with  the  other.  This  sauce  should 
be  thick,  pungent,  yellow,  and  slightly  speckled  with  the 
chopped  herbs  and  pickles. 

Poor  MavLS  Saucej  A.  Warm  up  a  breakfast-cup- 
ful of  good  stock  with  a  slice  of  lemon  and  a  tablespoon** 
ful  of  chopped  onions.  Boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or 
till  the  onion  is  tender ;  take  out  the  lemon,  and  serve. 

Poor  Man^B  Sauce,  B^  Throw  into  boiling  water 
parsley-leaves,  chopped  shallots,  an  onion,  pepper  and 
salt,  a  spoonful  of  vinegar,  and  boil  till  the  shallots  are 
tender.  This  sauce,  made  in  sufficient  quantity,  is  em- 
ployed as  a  Court^BouiUon  to  boil  several  kinds  offish, 
shrimps,  and  prawns. 

Poor  Man^s  Sauce,  C.  Boil  the  ingredients  of  B 
in  good  broth;  take  out  the  parsley  and  onion  when 
done ;  thicken  with  yolk  of  egg,  or  cold  melted  butter 
which  has  been  left,  or  with  a  dust  of  flour.  This  sauce 
is  useful  to  warm  up  yesterday's  remains  of  meat  or 
potdtry. 


SAUCES.  127 

Srown  Sauce,  Make  a  roux  (see  next  receipt).  The 
time  joa  will  let  it  be  on  the  fire  will  depend  on  the 
degree  of  colour  yon  wish  to  give  to  joor  sauce.  While 
stirring  it,  add  gradually  good  broth,  pepper  and  salt. 
If  to  be  served  with  vegetables,  jou  can  put  in  a  bouquet 
of  parsley  while  it  is  doing;  but  it  is  evident  that,  in 
making  this  Brown  Sauce,  you  can  give  it  whatever 
flavour  you  please.  Hence  its  usefulness  and  its  whole- 
someness. 

The  Roux — Flour  Browned  in  Butter.  This,  one  of 
the  grand  elements  of  French  cookery,  demands  special 
attention.  In  the  first  place,  we  shall  adopt  the  word; 
and  instead  of  directing,  ^^  Put  butter  in  a  saucepan ; 
when  it  is,  Ac.  &c.,*'  simply  say,  "  Make  a  nwta?"  (pro- 
nounce rooj  exactly  as  in  the  English  word  roovn).  No 
language  is  so  perfect  in  itself  as  to  be  independent  of 
every  other ;  and  to  object  to  the  use  of  foreign  words, 
when  employed  for  convenience,  and  not  through  afiecta- 
tion,  is  simply  absurd  and  childish.  The  French  have 
adopted  many  English  words,  for  which  their  language 
had  no  equivalent :  coal-tar ^  sporty  (railway)  wagon^  boule- 
doffy  redingote  (riding-coat,  frock-coat),  boulin-griny  and 
others ;  and  we  may  be  permitted  to  make  similar  re- 
prisals whenever  circumstances  render  it  needfuL 

Scua  is  literally  '^  red.**  Un  roux  and  une  rousse  are 
the  words  employed  to  denote  a  red-haired  man  and 
woman. 

To  make  a  Bouxy  put  into  a  stew-pan  a  piece  of  butter 
proportionate  to  the  quantity  to  be  prepared.  Let  it 
heat  gradually :  when  on  the  point  of  boiling,  add  the 


128  SAUCES, 

quantiiy  of  flour  requisite  to  bring  it  to  the  thickness  jou 
want,  and  stir  it  round  rapidly,  so  as  to  thoroughly 
amalgamate  the  flour  with  the  butter,  till  it  be  of  the 
proper  colour,  which  must  be  obtained  by  slow  degrees. 

The  r(mx  so  made  will  keep  for  some  time ;  but  it 
is  usual  with  cooks  to  make  their  roux  as  wanted  for  the 
basis  of  any  dish.  It  need  not  necessarily  be  made  with 
butter ;  other  kinds  of  fat  or  grease  will  serve.  For 
instance,  to  hash  mutton,  you  may  make  your  prelimi- 
nary Tcux  with  the  fat  from  the  gravy  of  the  cold  roast 
mutton ;  the  same  of  veal  or  poultry. 

By  a  contradiction  of  terms,  there  is  also  a  Wh{U 
Roux^  or  Whiie  Tldckeninffj  which  Ude  calls  an  indis- 
pensable article  in  cookery,  serving  not  merely  for  White 
Hashes  and  White  Dishes  in  general,  but  also  to  thicken 
sauces.  To  make  it,  put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan  ;  when  melted,  throw  in  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of 
flour,  enough  to  make  a  thin  paste.  In  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  it  will  be  done ;  but  great  care  must  be  taken  not 
to  let  it  colour.  It  will  keep  for  use  in  an  earthen 
pot 

To  have  a  light'-brown  or  a  darh'brotDn  roux^  you 
leave  it  on  the  fire  imtil  it  has  acquired  the  colour 
desired. 

For  a  white  rcuxy  you  stir  rapidly,  and  do  not  let  it 
get  hot  enough  to  acquire  colour.  It  is  a  nice  and 
delicate  operation. 

With  a  roux  made  for  immediate  service,  you  arrest 
the  colouring  at  the  point  desired  by  pouring  in  hot 
water  or  broth.     It  is  evident  that  for  making  rago&ts 


8AU0XS.  129 

of  dark  meats,  as  daok,  goose,  and  hare,  jon  would 
employ  a  browner  roua  than  for  hashed  roast  veal  or 
tnrkey* 

When  a  cook  has  got  her  hand  in  at  tossing  up  a 
rauxy  we  maj  say  to  her :  '^  Qo  on,  and  prosper.'' 

Sauce  Robert  J  for  roast  pork  or  beef-steaks.  Make 
a  roux*  When  it  is  made,  add  another  bit  of  batter,  and 
plenfy  of  fine-chopped  onions ;  while  thej  are  doing,  stir 
in  some  broth,  with  pepper  and  salt  Let  it  simmer  gen- 
tly for  twenty  minutes.  Add  a  dessert-spoonful  either 
of  plain  or  tarragon  vinegar,  and  a  very  small  quantity 
of  ready-made  mustard:  mix  well,  and  serve  boiling  hot. 

Provenfole  Sauce.  Put  in  a  stew-pan  three  dessert- 
spocmfuls  of  best  salad-oil,  mushrooms  and  shallots 
chopped  fine,  three  cloves  of  garlic  cut  in  quarters, 
pepper,  salt,  and  bouquet  of  herbs.  Set  it  on  the  fire ; 
dust  in  a  spoonfed  of  flour,  and  moisten  gradually  widi 
half  broth  and  half  white  wine.  When  thoroughly  min- 
gled, let  it  simmer  gently  for  half  an  hour.  Take  out 
the  bouquet,  and  serve.  If  you  wish  to  take  out  the 
garlic  also,  you  must  leave  the  doves  whole,  in  order  to 
be  able  to  find  them. 

Baviffote  Sauce,  Take  all  the  sweet  herbs  to  be  had 
at  the  season — ^altogether  a  good  handful — ^parsley,  cher- 
vil, tarragon,  tender  green  celery-leaf,  bumet,  cress — • 
chop  them  up  very  fine ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with 
broth,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar ;  boil  them  for  twenty 
minutes.  Work  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  spoonful  of 
flour ;  throw  it  in,  and  stir  continually  until  all  is  well 
combined  together. 


130  &A.ncE8. 

The  MininCs  Sauce.  If  you  are  short  of  bntter,  stir 
up  well  some  egg-yolks  in  salad-oil.  Add  pepper,  salt, 
and  grated  nntmeg.  Heat  it  gradually  in  a  hot-water 
bath,  stirring  continually  until  it  thickens. 

Cream  Sauce^  for  turbot,  cod,  salt  fish,  cods'  sounds 
and  tongues ;  or  for  vegetables,  as  Jerusalem  artichokes, 
salsify,  skirrets,  cauliflowers,  new  potatoes.  Put  a  good 
lump  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  teaspoonfiil  of 
flour,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  a  chopped 
white  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg.  When 
the  butter  is  melted,  and  all  well  mixed,  throw  into  the 
stew-pan  a  glass  of  cream  or  good  milk.  Let  it  boil  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  stirring  it  continually. 

When  served  with  fish,  its  flavour  may  be  heightened 
by  a  very  tiny  pinch  of  scraped  horse-radish ;  but  that 
condiment  must  be  most  sparingly  employed.  A  mere 
shred  or  two  suffices  to  give  the  wished-for  zest 

Salmi  SaucCy  for  HasJies.  Work  a  lump  of  butter 
into  a  spoonful  of  flour.  Melt  it  in  a  stew-pan,  browning 
it  as  lightly  as  possible.  Then  add  equal  quantities  of 
white  wine  and  broth,  complete  bouquet,  two  chopped 
shallots,  a  few  dice  of  carrots^  pepper  and  salt,  a  blade 
of  mace,  and  a  wee  lump  of  sugar.  Let  all  boil  to- 
gether until  considerably  reduced. 

Take  it  off  the  fire ;  put  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
the  pieces  of  meat  or  joints  of  fowl  composing  your  hash. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  your  dish  with  slices  of  thin  toasted 
bread.  On  these  arrange  thd  meat  or  the  joints  as  soon 
as  they  are  well  warmed  through.  Put  a  tliimblefiil  of 
cognac  and  a  few  button  mushrooms  into  the  sauce; 


SAUCES.  131 

^ve  it  anotlier  tarn  on  the  fire ;  pour  it  over  your  hash, 
and  yon  will  work  wonders. 

Our  spread  of  Sauces  might  be  expanded ;  but  more 
ihan  enough  have  been  ahready  given  to  guide  the  in- 
telligent housekeeper  to  agreeable  as  well  as  economical 
results.  Both  those  qualities  are  perfectly  compatible ; 
although  Sauces,  too  frequently,  are  an  item  with  which 
Cooks  and  Cooker}''-Books  dazzle,  by  their  extravagance, 
employers  who  are  not  afraid  of  expense.  Even  they, 
however,  sometimes  crj",  "  Halt !  enough  1"  as  when 
the  French  nobleman  diffidently  objected  to  putting  the 
•extract  of  fifty  hams  into  a  half-pint  bottle. 

The  Cuisinier  Imperial  tells  you  to  roast  a  dozen 
ducks  to  make  the  gravy  for  dressing  fifteen  eggs.  And 
such  waste  is  not  confined  to  bygone  times.  In  1861, 
for  Sauce  EspagnoU^  Spanish  Sauce^  we  are  told  to  take 
three  fillets  of  veal,  some  bacon,  some  slices  of  ham,  one 
pheasant,  two  partridges,  one  old  hen,  six  carrots,  five 
onions,  and  six  cloves,  to  be  moistened  with  good  con- 
somm^,  and  further  diluted  with  dry  madeira,  cham- 
pagne, or  burgundy.  When  those  few  and  simple  in- 
gredients were  duly  stewed  and  strained,  the  resulting 
-essence  would  be — tolerable  Satice  Espagnole. 

Ude's  Suage,  or  Empotage^  a  concentrated  broth,  is 
made  in  a  soup-kettle,  with  twenty  pounds  of  beef,  a 
knuckle  of  veal,  a  hen ;  "  and  if  you  have  any  remnants 
of  fowl  or  veal,  you  may  put  them  in  likewise."  This 
broth  must  boil  down  to  a  glaze,  without  getting  too 
high  a  colour.  It  requires  only  five  hours  to  do,  and 
must  be  strained,  if  you  please,  tlirough  a  ailken  sieve. 


132  SAUCES. 

Its  use,  when  joa  have  occasion  for  it,  is  to  nwisten  cmy 
thing  for  soup.  Beallj,  it  is  a  piiy  that  gold  and  jewels 
cannot  be  boiled  down  to  a  semi-liquid  glaze  I 

With  the  materials  of  this  Empotagey  a  cook  who 
has  heard  of  '^  Waste  not,  want  not/'  would  send  up  an 
ample  and  handsome  family  meal.  And  surelj  people's 
consciences,  if  not  their  stomachs,  ought  to  feel  the 
heavy  load  of  sauces  whose  lavish  cost  sounds  like  an 
offence  to  the  Bounty  of  Providence.  Most  people,  now- 
adays, would  enjoy  with  heartier  appetite  simple,  inex- 
pensive, yet  appropriate  relishes,  such  as : 

Sharp  Saucej  for  salmon  or  mackarel.  With  a 
sauce-boatftil  of  good  melted  butter  mix,  in  a  saucepan, 
over  the  fire,  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  teaspoon- 
iul  of  made  mustard. 

Sauce  in  a  Hurry ^  made  in  the  dining-room  for  roast 
fowl  or  duck.  Let  the  liver  be  roasted  inside  the  duck. 
While  the  fowl  is  being  carved,  crush  the  liver  with  a 
fork  very  small.  Let  the  servant  present  a  small  sauce- 
pan, into  which  you  will  put  the  liver,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  half  a  glass  of  red  wine,  pepper  and  salt  Let 
him  give  it  a  shake  or  two  over  the  fire,  and  pour  it  hot 
over  the  cut-up  fowl. 


BBOTHS  AND  80UFS.  133 


vn. 
BROTHS  AND. SOUPS. 

^^  Befobe  I  can  pretend  to.  make  Soups  of  any  kind, 
I  most  make  a  Broth,  which  will  serve  to  fill  all  the  Pots 
I  may  chance  to  have  on  my  Fire,  either  for  Saupsy 
Entrees  J  or  Entremets. 

<<  To  make  that  Broth,  Fll  take  that  Piece  of  Beef 
called  in  England  the  Mouth-Buttock,  some  Mutton,  and 
a  few  Fowls,  regulating  the  Quantity  of  Meat  according 
to  the  Quantity  of  Broth  I  want :  I'll  put  that  Meat  in  a 
Pot,  with  a  Bunch  made  of  Parsley,  young  Onions,  and 
Thyme,  ty'd  together,  and  a  few  Cloves ;  PU  fill  the  Pot 
with  Water,  keeping  always  warm  Water  ready  to  re- 
implace  that  of  the  Pot  which  evaporates  in  boiling ;  and 
when  the  Meat  is  boiPd  almost  to  Rags,  I  strain  the 
Broth  through  a  Napkin,  to  use  it  as  Occasion  serves ; 
and  for  roast  Meat,  after  I  have  extracted  the  Gravy,  I 
put  it  to  boil  with  such  a"^  Bunch  of  Herbs  as  that  above- 
mentionM,  have  it  well  boil'd,  strain  it,  and  keep  it  to 
colour  all  my  other  Broths. 

^'  Note.  That  these  Sorts  of  Brotlis  may  be  eaten 
without  any  other  Addition,  except  Pulse,  if  one  likes  it, 
viz.  Cabbages,  Turnips,  &c ;  which  Pulse  are  to  be 
boil'd  in  a  Pot  a-part,  and  after  they  are  well  drained  of 
their  I^qour,  they  are  put  in  the  Broth  to  boil  two  or 


134  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

threo  Gallops  more,  and  afterwards  put  in  a  Dish  and 
carried  to  Table. 

"The  other  delicious  Broths,  which  none  but  the 
Bich  can  afford,  are  : 

"The  Bisk  of  Pigeons;  the  Pottage  of  Healthy 
Partridge  Broth  with  Coleworts ;  Duck's  Pottage  with 
Turnips;  Pottage  of  Fowls  with  Asparagus;  Jiblet 
Pottage  ;  Pease  Pottage  with  a  green  Goose ;  Pottage  of 
Pigeons  with  green  Pease  ;  Pottage  of  Hares ;  Pottage 
of  a  Nuckle  of  Veal ;  Pig's  Pottage ;  Pottage  of  hash'd 
Mutton  ;  Pottage  of  a  Capon  with  Rice ;  Pottage  of  a 
fried  Calf's  Head;  Pottage  of  roasted  Woodcocks,  &c" 
— Dennis  de  CoetlogorHs  Universal  History  of  Arts  and 
Sciences^  vol.  i.  p.  827. 

"  Has  no  one  ever  been  surprised  at  our  national  ne- 
glect of  soup,  bouillon^  or  whatever  you  like  to  call  it? 
After  a  long,  cold  country  ride  or  drive,  you  alight  at  a 
firiend's  house,  and  they  oflTer  you  wine  and  biscuits — 
nay,  more,  they  produce  them ;  and,  most  likely,  one 
person  in  two  accepts  tho  hospitality.  In  France,  ten 
to  one,  wine  in  the  morning  is  the  last  thing  any  one^ 
Oipecially  a  lady,  would  think  of:  but  a  ^  bou  bouillon' 
is  a  very  different  affair.  Besides  being  bad  for  the 
stomach,  wine,  they  would  say,  is  even  worse  for  the 
head ;  and,  not  a  few  would  tell  you,  improper  for  any 
female  to  swallow  it  before  dinner.  [Notwithstanding 
which,  multitudinous  French  women  invariably  take 
wine  at  their  d^edner,'] 

"  The  most  judicious  beginning  for  a  dinner  is  soup. 
Being  a  highly  nourishing  compound,  and  exceedingly 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  135 

light,  it  diminishes  the  otherwise  too  great  quantify  of 
solids  likely  to  be  taken," — London  Society^  December 
1863. 

"  Pot  au  feu  is  the  term  given  to  a  pieoe  of  beef 
subjected  to  the  action  of  hot  water  slightly  salted,  for 
the  purpose  of  extracting  its  soluble  portion.  BauUlony 
or  Brothy  is  the  liquid  which  remains  after  the  operation 
has  been  completed.  The  flesh,  deprived  of  its  soluble 
part,  is  called  Bouilli^ — Boiled  Meat 

'^  To  obtain  good  Broth,  it  is  requisite  that  the  water 
should  be  heated  slowly,  in  order  that  the  albumine  con- 
tained inside  the  meat  do  not  coagulate  before  it  is  ex- 
tracted ;  and  the  ebullition  should  be  scarcely  perceptible, 
in  order  that  the  different  particles  which  are  successively 
dissolved  may  unite  intimately  and  without  muddiness. 

"Vegetables  or  roots  are  added  to  the  broth,  to 
heighten  its  flavour,  and  bread  or  pastes  (as  vermicelli 
and  its  varieties),  to  render  it  more  nourishing ;  it  is 
then  what  is  called  unpotage;  Pottage^  from  having  been 
made  in  a  poi 

"  Pottage  is  light,  wholesome,  nutritious  food,  which 
is  suited  to  every  constitution.  It  revives  the  stomach, 
imd  disposes  it  to  receive  and  to  digest  other  kinds  of 
aliment.  Persons  inclined  to  obesity  ought  to  lay  all 
the  fiiult  on  the  Broth  they  eat. 

^^  It  is  universally  allowed  that  nowhere  is  such  good 
potage  to  be  had  as  in  France,  and  my  travels  have  con- 
firmed the  truth  of  the  statement  Nor  need  the  fact 
surprise  us,  for  pottage  is  the  basis  of  the  national  French 
diet,  and  the  long  experience  of  centuries  could  not 


136  BBOTHS  XSD  80UP& 

do  otherwise  than  conduce  to  its  perfection/' — BrilUU 
Savarin. 

The  Pot  aufeu  is  the  preparation  which  gave  rise  to 
the  proverb :  Cest  la  soupe  qui  fait  le  soldat — ^^  It  is  the 
soup  which  makes  the  soldier."  Lean  beef  (a  portion 
of  the  thigh)  is  usually  employed  for  Broth  for  persons 
in  healthy  but  by  no  means  to  the  exclusion  of  other 
meats ;  witness  Henry  lY.'s  popular  wish  that  every  one 
of  his  subjects  had  a  hen  to  put  in  his  pot  In  the 
mountains,  and  in  districts  where  cattle  are  scarce, 
mutton  often  supplies  the  Pot  aufeu.  A  true  Pot  au 
feu  is  often  composed  of  a  mixture  of  meats,  especially 
when  a  large  party  of  country  people  have  to  be  enter- 
tained. The  pottage  is  made  with  a  bit  of  beef,  a  joint 
of  mutton,  a  piece  of  veal,  a  lump  of  salt  pork,  and  a 
fowl  not  young  enough  to  roast  The  vegetables  added 
are  carrots,  leeks,  turnips,  celery,  and  the  hearts  of  two 
or  three  cabbages.  The  meats  are  not  done  quite  to 
rags.  Afl;er  the  soup,  the  beef  is  served  with  the  vege- 
tables, and  pickled  gherkins ;  the  mutton  appears  masked 
in  caper  sauce ;  the  veal,  dished  in  brown  gravy,  makes 
B,fricandeau ;  the  pork  is  put  by,  to  be  eaten  cold ;  the 
fowl,  aft^r  boiling,  is  either  immediately  transferred  to 
the  oven,  basted  and  browned  (in  which  case  it  is  ac- 
companied to  table  by  salad),  or  else  garnished  with 
boiled  rice,  buttered  and  seasoned,  so  becoming  PouUt 
au  riz.  And  thus,  with  the  addition  of  a  few  slices  of 
ham,  and  a  dessert  of  cheese,  cakes,  and  fruit,  the  Pot 
aufeu  ftimishes  an  abundant  meaL 

An  old  pigeon,  partridge,  or  rabbit,  increases  the 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  137 

sayouriness  of  the  broifa.  The  trimmings  of  poultry, 
giblets,  roast-meat  bones  of  "whatever  sort,  are  also 
esteemed  as  of  good  effect. 

The  meat  for  broth  should  be  quite  fresh ;  the  slightest 
taint  not  only  injures  its  flavour,  but  prevents  its  keep- 
ing. It  must  be  put  on  a  gentle  fire,  with  the  water 
cold  and  containing  a  little  salt,  and  never  allowed  to 
boil  galloping.  The  scum  is  removed  as  fast  as  it  rises, 
until  no  more  shows  itsel£  The  vegetables,  previously 
peeled  and  cleaned  and  thrown  into  a  pail  of  spring- 
water,  are  added  when  the  meat  is  about  two-thirds 
done;  two  or  three  carrots,  two  or  three  turnips,  a  few 
leeks  tied  in  a  bunch,  celery  the  same,  a  iew  pepper- 
corns, an  onion  stuck  witli  three  or  four  cloves,  and 
bouquet  complete.  The  colour  of  the  broth  may  be 
heightened  by  a  bit  of  burnt  onion,  or  by  balls  made 
and  sold  for  that  purpose.  A  parsnip  may  be  added, 
when  its  peculiar  sweetness  is  not  disliked.  Turnips 
had  better  be  omitted  in  sultry  weather,  as  they  hasten 
the  decomposition  of  the  broth,  and  make  it  turn  sour 
sooner  than  it  otherwise  would.  The  clove  of  garlic  is 
a  matter  of  taste  and  custom. 

A  pound  of  meat  to  a  quart  of  water  is  a  fair  allow- 
ance for  good  broth.  Large  bones  should  be  broken  in 
pieces.  The  time  of  boiling  will  vary  from  three  to  Qve 
hours.  When  done,  the  broth  should  be  of  a  bright, 
clear,  golden  light  brown,  aad  perfectly  limpid. 

To  serve  it :  slices  or  bits  of  crust  are  put  into  a 
soup-tureen,  and  over  them  the  broth  is  ladled,  straining 
it  through  a  cullender.     The  bread  is  left  to  soak  in  the 


138  BBOTHS  AKD  SOUF& 

first  few  ladlefuls,  and  then  the  tureen  filled  with  the 
quantity  required.  The  broth  is  even  better  next  day ; 
it  is  mellower,  and  the  fat  can  have  been  removed. 

The  three  grand  points  to  attend  to,  to  have  good 
broth,  are :  1st,  the  choice  of  good  iresh  meat ;  2d,  gentle 
and  equable  boiling  all  the  while,  instead  of  getting  cold 
at  one  time  and  boiling  over  at  another ;  and  3d,  keeping 
the  soup-pot  closely  covered  with  the  lid.  N.B.  Let 
the  cook  fully  understand  that  broth  is  not  good  diluted 
with  water. 

Consommdy  Concentrated  Brothy  Stocky  is  obtained  by 
boiling  down  the  above  witli  additions  of  meat;  but 
when  it  is  known  that  Strong  Broth  will  be  wanted,  it 
is  better  to  begin  it  by  itself  from  the  beginning,  allow- 
ing a  larger  proportion  of  meat,  and  selecting  pieces 
with  plenty  of  tendon,  to  furnish  more  gelatine.  For 
dark  stocks,  use  shin  of  beef,  and  the  like ;  the  addition 
to  this  of  portions  of  hare,  pheasant,  or  partridge,  will 
make  a  Concentrated  Broth  of  Game.  For  strong 
White  Broths,  knuckle  of  veal  must  be  used ;  the  addi- 
tion of  a  fowl  cut  into  joints  will  make  Consomme  of 
Fowls.  Stock  Broths  are  made  for  two  purposes:  to 
supply  sauce  and  gravies  to  other  meats,  and  to  be  taken 
by  themselves  as  restoratives.  In  both  cases  they  should 
be  strained,  and  their  fat  taken  off^  when  cold.  For  the 
former  purpose  they  may  be  more  highly  seasoned  than 
for  the  latter,  which  requires  them  to  be  delicate  in 
flavour,  though  by  no  means  insipid.  Care  is  required 
to  prevent  consommfe  from  burning  or  sticking  to  the 
side  of  the  pot,  which  would  inevitably  spoil  both  flavour 


BB0TH3  AND  SOUPS.  13!> 

• 

and  colour.  Sufficient  savouriness  is  obtained  by  tho 
bouquet,  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  especiallj  when  the 
broth  of  the  pot  an  feu  is  used  to  make  the  concentrated 
broth.  A  few  slices  of  ham,  or  a  ham-bone,  are  some* 
times  used  in  making  consomm6 ;  but  smoked  ham  is  apt 
to  communicate  too  much  of  its  peculiar  flavour.  For 
invalids,  ham  is  best  omitted,  as  having  a  tendency  to 
produce  heartburn. 

Broth  in  an  Hour.  Cut  up  a  pound  of  lean  beef  into 
small  pieces ;  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  witli  chopped  onions 
and  carrots,  a  few  thin  slices  of  bacon,  and  half  a  tumbler 
of  water.  Let  them  simmer  and  stew  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  till  they  begin  to  stick  to  the  bottom  of  the 
stew-pan.  Then  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  with  a  pinch 
of  salt ;  boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  strain  and  serve. 

Beef'Tea.  It  is  difficult  to  make  this  most  useful 
restorative  well  in  an  ordinary  saucepan,  and  over  an 
ordinary  kitchen-fire.  Keep  for  the  purpose  an  earthen 
pot  (with  a  close-fitting  lid),  that  will  stand  the  fire. 
Fill  this  one-quarter  full  of  the  best  lean  beef  cut  into 
small  pieces;  all  &t  must  be  removed,  but  sinew  and 
tendon  may  remain.  Season  with  a  little  salt  and  a  few 
whole  peppercorns.  Fill  nearly  to  the  top  with  cold 
water,  and  set  it  on  the  hot  plate  of  a  cooking-stove,  io 
simmer  gently  several  hours.  Take  off  any  scum,  and 
afterwards  any  fat  that  may  rise.  Let  the  beef  remain 
in  the  pot  tmtil  the  whole  brewing  of  beef-tea  is  used. 
Stir  well  with  a  spoon  before  serving  a  portion;  the 
clearest  broth  is  not  the  most  nutritious.  For  want  of 
a  hot  iron  plate,  beef-tea  may  be  made  in  a  very  slow 


140  BB0TH8  AKD  80UFS. 

oven ;  but  in  that  case  it  will  be  as  well  to  lute  down 
the  lid  of  the  pot  with  paste. 

Beef-tea  is  best  made  fresh  and  fresh,  in  small  quan- 
tities,  as  wanted ;  the  addition  of  herbs  and  Tegetables 
must  depend  on  the  state  of  the  patient*s  stomach.  The 
beef  left  after  the  tea  is  drawn  off  will  make  capital 
potted  beef. 

Chicken  BrotL  Cat  up  a  lean  fowl  into  joints ;  an 
old  one  makes  better  broth  than  a  young  one,  onlj  it 
takes  more  than  twice  the  time  to  cook.  Put  it  in  a 
well-closed  saucepan,  with  a  beef  or  veal  bone,  onions, 
carrots,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  plenty  of 
water.  Skim  as  soon  as  it  boils  up,  and  simmer  gently 
afterwards.  An  old  fowl  will  take  five  or  six  hours  to 
yield  all  its  goodness  to  the  broth. 

Rabbit  Broth  may  be  made  as  above,  and  is  done 
more  quickly.  It  is  light,  and  affords  a  pleasant  change 
when  an  invalid  is  tired  of  the  taste  of  chicken. 

Vecd  Broilij  Wliite.  Put  a  pound  of  the  lean  parts 
of  veal,  with  an  equal  quantity  of  bones  and  cartilage, 
into  a  covered  saucepan,  with  two  quarts  of  cold  water, 
a  little  salt,  an  onion,  and  the  heart  of  a  lettuce  pulled  to 
pieces.     Boil  up,  skim,  and  reduce. 

Vecd  Brothy  Brown.  Partially  fry  on  both  sides, 
in  butter,  a  good  slice  of  fillet  of  veal ;  do  the  same  to 
a  slice  of  lean  bacon  and  a  slice  of  lean  beef.  When 
nicely  browned,  throw  them  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water  with  onions,  carrots,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  then  let  it  simmer  gently.  For 
invalids,  the  bacon  and  the  beef  may  be  omitted* 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  141 

The  aboye  maj  be  oonyerted  into  nice  VecU  Scupy 
by  taking  out  the  meat  when  done,  cutting  it  into  dice, 
and  then  returning  it  to  the  soup  together  with  some 
thickening  made  by  browning  flour  in  the  butter  which 
fried  the  meat,  and  diluting  it  gradually  with  a  little  of 
the  broth,  giving  the  whole  a  final  boil  up.  The  onions 
will  have  fidlen  to  pieces,  and  may  remain.  The  carrots 
may  be  chopped  fine  and  added  to  the  soup. 

Broths  in  general  may  be  made  more  supporting 
and  nutritious  by  the  addition  of  macaroni,  vermicelli, 
Italian  pastes,  or  rice.  Tliese  are  best  boiled  separately 
in  a  little  of  the  broth  tUl  tender.  In  warming  up  such 
broth  a  second  time,  care  must  be  taken  that  nothing 
sticks  to  the  bottom. 

Mutton  Broth.  Cut  two  pounds  of  scrag  of  mutton 
into  slices ;  put  them  on  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water, 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  pearl  barley,  and  a  little  salt. 
Let  boil  till  the  meat  is  done  to  rags.  Strain  out  the 
meat  and  bones,  and  the  residue  of  the  barley,  and  when 
cold  remove  the  fat. 

Onion,  celery,  and  turnip,  as  also  a  sprig  of  parsley 
or  thyme,  may  be  added  to  the  broth  if  the  patient's 
stomach  is  able  to  bear  them. 

Scotch  Broose.  "  Will  you  take  a  few  broth  ?"  is  an 
old  expression,  proving  that  broth  has  its  plural,  even  if 
it  be  not  a  noun  of  multitude.  Take  a  neck  of  mutton 
with  the  fat  raised  from  oiF  the  best  end.  Cut  off  the 
scrag  end,  and  divide  it  into  several  pieces  to  make  the 
broth.  Let  it  boil  gently  a  couple  of  hours,  skimming 
well.    Then  add  sliced  carrots,  onions,  turnips,  celery. 


142  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

a  sprig  of  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  a  teacupfol  of  split 
peas,  and  six  table-spoonfuls  of  pearl-barley,  both  pre- 
viously steeped  in  tepid  water. 

Cut  the  best  end  of  the  neck  into  mutton-chops, 
oxactly  as  if  for  frying ;  put  them  in  soon  after  the 
vegetables,  and  let  the  whole  simmer  together  until  all 
is  tender.  A  second  skimming  will  be  required  after 
the  addition  of  tlie  fresh  meat  and  vegetables.  In 
serving,  there  should  be  a  mutton-chop  for  each  person's 
plate,  to  be  accompanied  by  the  vegetables,  barley,  and 
broose. 

In  country  places  where  pearl-barley  is  not  to  be 
had,  oatmeal,  groats,  or  rice  may  be  substituted  for  it 

Scottish  Hotch^Potclu  [From  Meg  Dod£  Cookery^ 
rich  in  Scotch  national  dishes.]  Make  the  stock  of  sweet 
fresh  lamb  or  mutton.  Grate  the  zest  (outer  rind)  of 
two  or  three  large  young  carrots ;  slice  down  as  many 
more.  Slice  down  also  sweet  young  turnips,  young 
onions,  lettuce,  and  parsley.  Have  a  full  quart  of  these 
things  when  finally  shred,  another  of  green  pease  and 
sprigs  of  cauliflower.  Put  in  the  vegetables,  witiiholding 
half  the  pease  till  near  the  end  of  the  process.  Cut 
down  two  or  three  pounds  of  ribs  of  lamb  into  small 
steaks,  trimming  off  superfluous  fat,  and  put  them  to  the 
stock  Boil  well,  and  skim  carefully ;  add  the  remaining 
pease,  white  pepper,  and  salt ;  and  when  thick  enough, 
serve  the  cutlets  in  the  tureen  witli  the  hotch-potcL 

Ohs.  The  excellence  of  this  favourite  dish  depends 
mainly  on  the  meat,  whether  lamb  or  mutton,  being 
perfectly  fresh,  and  the  vegetables  being  all  young,  full 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  143 

of  sweet  juices,  and  boiled  till  of  good  consistence.  Tlie 
sweet  white  tnmip  is  best  for  hotch-potch^  or  the  small, 
round,  smooth-grained,  yellow  kind  peculiar  to  Scot- 
land, which  is  almost  equal  to  [it  is  better  than]  th^ 
genuine  Navet  of  France.  Mutton-chops  make  excellent 
hotch-potch  without  lamb-steaks.  Parsley  shred,  white 
cabbage,  asparagus-points,  or  cauliflower,  may  be  added 
to  the  other  vegetables  or  not,  at  pleasure.  Tlie  meat 
may  be  kept  whole,  and  served  separately. 

Of  this  receipt,  when  it  first  ap|)eared  in  our  work, 
a  great  poet,  and  no  contemptible  gastronome,  wrote, 
^'  Eve  might  have  prepared  it  for  Adam  in  paradise.'* 
There  are,  however,  many  varieties  of  Scottish  hotch- 
potch; we  give  what  wo  consider  the  best  and  most 
naiionaL 

Cock-^t-leekie*  [^Idem.']  Boil  fi-om  four  to  six 
poimds  of  good  shin-beef,  well  broken,  till  the  liquor  is 
very  good.  Strain  it,  and  put  it  to  a  capon  or  large 
fowl,  trussed  as  for  boiling ;  and,  when  it  boils,  half  the 
quantity  of  blanched  leeks  intended  to  be  used,  well 
cleaned,  and  cut  in  inch-lengths,  or  longer.  Skim  this 
carefully.  In  a  half-hour,  add  the  remaining  part  of  the 
leeks,  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt  The  soup 
must  be  very  thick  of  leeks,  and  the  first  part  of  them 
must  be  boiled  down  into  the  soup  till  it  becomes  a 
lubricous  compound.  Sometimes  the  capon  is  served  in 
the  tureen  with  the  soup. 

This  makes  good  Icek-soup  without  a  fowl. 
Obs.   Some  people  thicken  cock-a-leekie  with  the 
flour  of  oatmeal.     Those  who  dislike  so  much  of  the 


144  BROTHS  AKD  SOUPS. 

leeks  [but  they  are  medicinal,  says  the  Doctor,  on  ao* 
count  of  their  mucilage]  may  substitute  Oerman  greens^ 
or  spinage,  for  one-half  of  them ;  and  we  (Meg  Dods) 
consider  this  an  improvement,  greens  especially,  if  ten- 
der and  long-boiled,  and  not  too  finely  shred.  Beject 
the  coarse  green  of  the  leeks. 

Prunes  and  raisins  used  to  be  put  into  this  soup* 
The  practice  is  nearly  obsolete. 

Chemut  Soup,  Have  ready  some  good  broth  or 
consomm^ ;  that  of  game  or  fowl  is  best. 

Peel  the  brown  skin  firom  a  quantity  of  raw  chesnuts ; 
boil  them  a  minute  or  two  in  water,  to  make  the  under- 
skin  come  away  easily.  Pound  them  in  a  mortar ;  boil 
them  in  water  till  tender  enough  to  crush  them  through 
a  cullender  with  a  spoon ;  throw  them  into  the  broth  ; 
boil  up  again,  and  pour  into  a  tureen  with  a  few  crusts 
or  dice  of  toasted  bread,  and  a  sliffJu  sprinkling  of  sugar 
at  the  bottom. 

Shm-^f'Beef  Soup,  Into  a  large  boiler  of  cold  water 
put  eight  or  nine  pounds  of  the  hind  legs  of  beef,  cut 
into  convenient-sized  pieces,  six  large  carrots,  ten  onions^ 
and  three  heads  of  celery,  all  sliced,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  two  whole  anchovies,  a  little  bit  of  ham,  quite 
lean,  from  the  bone  (a  small  portion  of  ham-bone  which 
is  tolerably  dose  cut  will  answer  exceedingly  well),  and 
some  pounded  cloves  and  whole  pepper.  All  these  are 
to  simmer  gently  over  a  slow  fire  for  at  least  twenty-four 
hours  (six-and-thiriy  is  better),  and  are  then  to  be 
strained  into  a  pan  and  left  to  cool  till  the  next  morning, 
when  the  fat  may  be  cleared  ofi;    A  few  small  carrots 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  145 

and  batton  onions  should  be  boiled  separately  in  a  por- 
tion of  this  liquor,  and  added  with  it  when  the  soup  is 
served*  When  the  beef  is  about  enough  and  not  too 
mnch  done,  the  nicest  pieces  of  gristle  and  tender  meat 
should  be  picked  out,  cut  into  dice,  and  added  to  the 
soup  before  serving  it. 

Flemish  Soup.  Put  two  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stew- 
pan,  with  a  sufficiency  of  stock  or  good  broth  that  has 
been  well  skimmed.  Into  this  slice  six  onions  and  three 
heads  of  celery  cut  into  small  pieces.  Set  it  over  a  slow 
fire,  to  boil  gently  for  one  hour.  At  the  same  time  peel 
and  quarter  a  dozen  middle-sized  potatoes,  and  put  them 
on  in  a  separate  saucepan  to  boil.  This  is  done  because 
potatoes  ought  not  to  be  cooked  in  any  soup,  hash,  or 
made  dish  of  which  they  are  to  form  part,  as  the  water 
that  comes  from  them  contains  a  principle  that  disagrees 
with  many  stomachs.  When  the  quartered  potatoes  are 
done  enough,  drain  them  a  minute  or  two,  and  add  them 
to  the  sliced  onions  and  celery.  Season  with  a  little 
pepper  and  salt  When  the  potatoes  are  quite  dissolved, 
rub  the  whole  through  an  iron-wire  sieve ;  add  a  pint  of 
cream,  and  give  it  a  boil.  A  little  macaroni  broken  into 
short  lengths,  boiled  tender  in  milk,  and  thrown  into  the 
soup  just  before  going  to  table,  is  a  great  improvement 

Cabbage  Soup.  Wash  thoroughly,  and  shred  very 
fine  (as  for  making  pickled  cabbage),  the  hearts  of  one 
or  two  summer  cabbages,  or  of  a  very  delioate  Savoy, 
according  to  size.  Slice  and  mince  some  carrot,  turnip, 
and  two  or  three  leeks,  all  ver}'-  fine,  and  mix  weU  these 
chopped  vegetables  together  in  a  salad-bowL 

L 


146  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

Have  ready  a  good  broth :  pork  or  beef  boQings  will 
do,  when  not  too  salt ;  but  French  cooks  prefer  a  broth 
or  bouillon  made  of  a  variety  of  meats  boiled  together  : 
for  instance,  a  piece  of  lean  beef,  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a 
amall  piece  of  salt  pork,  and  a  bit  of  the  neck  or  shoulder 
of  mutton. 

These  meats  need  not  be  cooked  so  much  as  to  render 
ihem  uneatable,  either  cold  or  warmed  up  in  a  stew,,  or 
even  served  hot  at  the  same  dinner  at  which  the  soup 
appears.  For  these  purposes  thej  are  invariably  used 
in  France,  instead  of  being  thrown  out  to  the  dogs,  as 
broth-meat  too  frequently  is  in  England. 

When  the  meat  is  enough  done  according  to  your 
judgment,  make  the  broth  boil  galloping,  and  then  throw 
in  your  bowlful  of  well-drained  shred  and  chopped  vege- 
tables. Let  ihem  boil  on,  without  the  lid,  till  the  cabbage^ 
&C.,  are  quite  tender ^  but  not  cooked  to  a  mash. 

While  the  vegetables  are  boiling,  slice  and  chop  one 
or  two  large  onions  (if  more  convenient,  they  may  be 
prepared  beforehand,  and  set  by,  cold,  till  wanted).  Fry 
them  in  butter  to  a  rich  brown.  Add  them  to  the  soup, 
and  mix  them  up  witli  it 

Cahbage  Soupy  meager^  for  abstinence-days,  is  made 
in  the  same  way  as  above,  using  water  instead  of  broth, 
and  often  adding  to  the  cabbage  a  large  handful  of 
chopped  sorrel — an  excellent  antiscorbutic  and  purifier 
of  the  blood.  A  larger  quantity  of  fried  onions  is  used^ 
and  at  the  time  of  adding  them  to  the  soup  a  small 
basinful  of  grated  crumb  of  bread  is  also  incorporated 
with  it,  to  make  it  more  nourishing. 


i  BBOTHS  Ain)  80X7P8.  147 

■ 

Mock'Turtle  Soup.  Although  Sheep's-Head  Broth, 
Ox -Cheek  Soup,  and  Soup  made  firom  Calf's -Head 
boilings,  are  dishes  veiy  generally  eaten ;  nevertheless, 
many  persons,  who  will  not  allow  that  they  are  over- 
fiustidioos,  object  to  make  use  of  the  liquor  obtained 
firom  the  inside  as  well  as  the  outside  of  an  animal's 
head,  however  carefully  it  may  be  washed.  The  follow- 
ing plan  meets  their  objection  with  the  slightest  possible 
loss  of  nutritive  matter. 

Take  half  a  cairs  head,  properly  scalded  and  pre- 
pared, with  the  skin  on.  Take  out  the  brains,  and  boil 
them  separately  in  salt  and  water.  Take  out  the  bones 
of  ihe^  and  wash  the  head  in  cold  spring-water. 
Put  it  on  the  fire  in  a  large  boiler  or  soup-kettle,  in 
which  it  can  be  well  covered  with  cold  water.  Throw  in 
a  handful  of  salt  Skim  imtil  it  boils,  and  there  remains 
no  more  scum  to  remove.  Let  it  boil  galloping  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenfy  minutes ;  then  take  it  out ; 
throw  away  this  first  water,  and  put  the  head  on  the 
fire  again  in  firesh  hot  water,  in  which  it  may  boil  until 
enough,  but  not  too  much,  done.  Any  impurities  which 
can  reasonably  excite  dislike  will  have  been  removed  by 
the  first  water  and  its  scum. 

One  half  of  the  meat  on  the  head  will  suffice  for  the 
soup  for  a  small  pariy ;  the  remainder  may  be  used  for 
any  other  pmrpose — to  be  eaten,  for  instance,  plain-boiled, 
with  the  brains  as  sauce.  Set  aside  your  soup-meat  to 
cool.  When  cold,  cut  it  up  into  dice,  including  with  it 
a  fair  proportion  of  the  tongue. 

To  the  calfVhead  boilings  add  a  knuckle  of  veal  cut 


148  BBOTHS  Aim  SOUPS. 

np  into  several  pieces,  and  a  small  piece  of  shin  of  beef, 
two  carrots  sliced,  and  two  large  onions.  Let  it  boil  till 
the  meat  is  done  to  rags,  adding  hot  water  from  time  to 
time,  when  required,  to  maintain  the  quantiiy  wanted. 

Half  an  hour  before  it  is  quite  cooked,  add  a  burnt 
onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  two  bay-leaves,  a  stick  of 
celery  with  some  of  the  green  leaf,  a  slice  of  lemon-peel, 
a  good  bunch  of  thyme^  knotted  marjoram^  and  ^oeet  basil 
[some  cooks  even  hold  that  sweet  basil  is  the  secret  of 
first-rate  mock-turtle],  with  salt,  a  few  cloves,  common 
and  cayenne  pepper  to  your  taste.  When  done,  strain 
the  whole  through  a  large-holed  cullender,  and  set  your 
stock  aside  in  a  jar  to  cool,  which  will  enable  you  to 
remove  the  fat  and  leave  the  sediment  at  the  bottom. 

To  make  the  thickening :  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  in  a  stew-pan.  When  quite  hot,  stir  in 
gradually  half  a  pound  of  flour,  and  mix  with  it  some  of 
your  stock,  keeping  it  quite  smooth  and  fi:ee  firom  knots. 
Should  knots  be  formed,  they  must  be  strained  away. 
Then  add  it  to  your  stock,  continually  stirring,  and 
letting  it  boil  well  together.  When  thoroughly  amal- 
gamated, throw  in  your  forcemeat  balls,  and  adding 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  two  glasses  of  madeira  or 
generous  white  wine.  Then  put  in  your  bits  of  soup- 
meat. 

The  forcemeat  balls  are  made  with  veal  stuffing, 
about  the  size  of  marbles,  and  baked  brown  in  a  smart 
oven.  For  egg-balls,  when  liked,  pound  smooth  several 
hard  egg-yolks,  with  one  raw  yolk  and  a  dust  of  flour, 
to  the  consistency  that  will  allow  you  to  roll  them  into 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  149 

marbles.     Season  with  cayenne  and  salt     Throw  them 
into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  cook  a  couple  of  minutes. 

The  essential  points  for  good  Mock-Turtle  Soup  are  : 
first,  a  rich,  smooth  stock,  delicately  yet  highly  flavoured ; 
secondly,  a  savouiy  thickening,  creamy  and  of  a  good 
colour,  witiiout  the  least  taste  of  burning;  thirdly,  a 
fair  proportion  of  tempting  morsels  of  gelatinous  calPs 
head,  with  a  judicious  mixture  of  fat  and  lean ;  fourthly, 
the  piquant  aroma  arising  from  the  herbs,  the  wine,  the 
lemon-peel  and  juice,  and  the  spices  used. 

The  forcemeat  and  egg  balls  are  only  secondary 
items,  by  no  means  indispensable,  and  often  omitted. 
Their  absence  does  not  spoil  good  mock -turtle,  while 
their  presence  would  not  make  bad  mock-turtle  good. 

Gravy  Soup.  Have  three  or  four  pounds  of  the 
fleshy  part  of  a  shin  of  beef  cut  across  in  slices,  sawing 
the  bone  quite  through.  Tou  may  take  out  the  marrow ; 
it  win  help  to  make  The  Doctor's  Pudding,  Ac.  With 
the  meat  and  bones  make  a  good  stock,  flavouring  with 
the  vegetables  and  herbs  usual  for  brown  soups. 

Suppose  you  have  left  a  quantity  of  roast -beef  or 
veal  gravy.  Put  this  with  the  fat  into  a  stew-pan ; 
when  hot,  brown  in  it  chopped  onions  and  flour  for  a 
thickening;  season;  work  it  well  into  your  stock;  strain, 
boil  up,  and  serve. 

Hare  Soup.  Skin  a  large  hare,  saving  the  blood 
when  you  empty  it.  Wipe  it  well,  but  do  not  wash  it. 
Cut  it  up  into  joints,  and  put  them  with  the  blood  into 
an  earthen  vessel  that  will  hold  six  or  seven  pints.  Add 
two  pounds  of  lean  beef  cut  in  pieces,  two  large  onions 


150  BROTHS  AND  SOUP& 

quartered,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  whole  pepper,  maoe, 
and  a  few  doves.  Nearly  fill  the  vessel  with  boiling 
water,  tie  its  top  down  close  with  a  bladder,  and  set  it 
to  cook  in  a  boiler  of  water  for  three  or  four  hours. 
Pour  off  the  soup,  thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  and 
butter,  stirring  jin  at  the  same  time  a  table-spoonfol  of 
any  or  several  of  the  following  sauces— viz.  essence  of 
anchovy,  soy,  Worcestershire,  Beading,  or  Harvey^s 
sauce,  mushroom  or  walnut  ketchup,  or  oiher  approved 
zest  Make  quite  hot,  and  send  to  table  with  forcemeat 
balls  and  the  best  parts  of  the  meat  of  the  hare  thrown 
into  it. 

Pease  Soup  Purde — Purie  de  Pais,  In  the  French 
kitchen  purSe  sometimes  simply  denotes  Pease  Soup; 
more  commonly  it  is  applied  to  other  seeds,  vegetables, 
roots,  and  fruits,  reduced  by  tlie  same  means  to  the  same 
consistency,  affixing  to  each  jmrde  the  name  of  the  sub- 
stance of  which  it  is  made :  as  puree  of  lentik,  purde  of 
potatoes,  of  sorrel,  carrots,  onions,  tomatoes,  pumpkins, 
and  so  on.  We  therefore  adopt  the  word  purde  as  being 
precise,  useful,  and  significative. 

Purees  are  employed  for  two  purposes — as  ingre- 
dients in  soups,  and  as  sauces  for  solid  meats ;  in  both 
ways  they  render  considerable  service.  As  sauces,  they 
are  usually  spread  in  a  tliick  layer  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  on  which  the  article  to  be  served  is  placed.  Thus 
we  have  boiled  or  fried  sausages  on  a  pur^  of  potatoes 
— resembling  our  mashed  potatoes,  only  not  quite  so  dry; 
fricandeau  of  veal  on  a  pur&  of  sorrel ;  mutton-chops  on 
a  pur&  of  tomatoes;  lamb-chops  on  a  pur4e  of  cucumbers. 


JBBOTHS  AND  80UB8.  "  151 

Generally  considered,  purees  are  preferable  as  arti- 
cles of  diet  to  the  seeds  or  vegetables  which  form  their 
basis,  because  thej  retain  all  the  nutritive  elements, 
labile  the  skin,  rind,  or  cortical  envelope — ^which  passes 
undigested  through  almost  every  human  stomach — is 
removed.  Pur^s  may  be  freely  given  to  invalids,  the 
raw  materials  of  which  can  be  eaten  with  impunity  only 
by  robust  individuals  in  the  habit  of  daily  taking  strong 
exercise:  familiar  instances  are  seen  in  apples,  celery, 
cucumbers. 

Pease  Soup  may  be  made  with  either  blue  or  white 
dried  pease,  and  those  either  whole  or  split.  The  Prus- 
sian-blue  races  are  excellent  for  the  purpose — so  likewise 
^re  many  of  the  whites.  There  is  an  uncertainty  about 
pease  turning  out  ^^  good  boilers ;"  something  may  de- 
pend on  the  soil  on  which  they  are  grown,  more  on  the 
water  in  which  they  are  boiled. 

Soak  the  peas  all  night  in  soft  water.  Filtered  rain* 
water  is  the  best,  as  it  also  is  for  boiling  them.  Put 
ihem  on  with  the  water  cold,  and  without  salt  The  time 
of  boiling  to  make  them  tender  will  depend  on  their 
quality.  Ton  may  boil  some  pease  in  some  waters  all 
day  long,  and  they  will  still  remain  hard  and  indissolu- 
ble. When  quite  tender  and  falling  to  pieces,  squeeze 
ihem  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon  through  a  large- 
holed  cullender  into  a  bowL  The  bowl  will  contain  the 
true  pur^  of  the  pease ;  the  skins  and  hard  bits  will 
remain  in  the  cullender. 

Pease  Soup  should  be  good  of  the  stock,  as  well  as 
.good  of  the  pease.     The  Doctor  has  heard  water-made 


152  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

pease  soup  contemphiously  spoken  of  as  ^^  Pea  Broifa." 
It  is  usual  to  make  pease  soup  with  the  boilings  of  salt 
meat— of  a  leg  of  pork  or  a  piece  of  corned  meat.  Such 
soup  may  suit  the  stomachs  of  agricultural  labourers,  or 
their  equally  robust  employers ;  but  the  Doctor  advises 
his  readers  to  beware  of  it  The  boilings  of  meat  which 
has  been  long  in  salt  acquire  from  it  certain  pungent  and 
acrid  qualities  which  are  very  apt  to  bring  on  heartburn, 
indigestion,  or  diarrhoea  in  stomachs  that  have  not  become 
^^  tolerant"  of  that  class  of  food.  On  shipboard,  and  in 
other  situations,  there  is  sometimes  no  choice ;  but  where 
there  is  a  choice,  the  invalid  will  make  it  A  soldier  in 
the  French  army,  who  went  through  the  Crimean  cam- 
paign, told  the  Doctor  that  he  attributed  the  diarrhoea 
which  at  one  time  invalided  the  troops  to  the  hacoru  He 
abstained  from  the  bacon,  and  escaped. 

Some  cooks  try  to  avert  the  evil  by  using  half  salt 
boilings  and  half  fresh  broth  or  water ;  but  it  is  a  half- 
measure  which  effects  but  little  good:  the  unpleasant 
and  unwholesome  twang  always  remains ;  and  tjie  worst 
of  it  is,  that  it  does  not  always  offend  the  palate  at  the 
time,  but  causes  the  stomach  to  suffer  afterwards.  It  is 
wiser  to  reject  salt  boilings  altogether,  unless  of  meafc 
that  has  been  salted  two  or  three  days  only  at  most 
Ham,  tongue,  and  other  smoked-meat  boilings  are  only 
fit  to  season  pig-wash. 

Any  fresh-meat  boiUngs  may  be  used  for  pease  soup, 
but  the  flavour  of  pork  is  the  old-established  rule.  Take, 
therefore,  a  couple  of  hocks  of  pork,  with  their  feet, 
which  have  not  been  salted  more  than  two  or  three  days. 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  153 

Wash  ihem  well  before  pnitmg  them  on  in  your  boiler 
in  cold  water.  When  they  boil  and  have  been  skimmed, 
add  two  split  carrots,  two  sliced  turnips,  three  or  fonr 
siloed  onions,  a  parsnip,  and  two  good  heads  of  celery, 
"with  a  little  of  the  green  leaf  remaining.  When  tlie 
flesh  of  the  feet  will  come  away  from  the  bones,  take 
them  oat,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  to  add  to  the 
soup  jost  before  serving.  When  the  hocks  are  well 
done,  they  can  be  taken  out,  and  either  have  their  meat 
applied  to  the  same  purpose  if  liked,  or  be  set  aside,  to 
be  eaten  cold  at  breakfast  or  lunch. 

When  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender^  take  them  out, 
chop  them  fine,  and  return  them  to  the  soup;  or  you 
may  squeeze  them  into  it,  in  the  shape  of  a  pur€e, 
through  a  cullender.  Add  the  purfo  of  pease  to  thicken 
the  soup  to  the  consistency  liked ;  throw  in  the  meat  of 
the  feet,  and  what  you  like  of  the  hock ;  season  with 
pepper  and  cayenne  to  taste ;  add  salt,  if  needed,  and 
serve  hot.  Do  not  let  any  of  your  guests  mutter  in  your 
ear: 

**  The  King  of  the  South, 
He  burnt  his  mouth 

With  eating  of  cold  peaae  porridge." 

The  colour  of  pease  soup  made  of  blue  pease  may  be 
heightened  and  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  pur^  of 
spinach,  which,  however,  will  slightly  modify  the  flavour. 
A  better  way  of  effecting  the  same  object  is  that  to  be 
shortly  given  in  Green-Pease  Soup  without  Green  Pease. 
Pease  Soup  should  have  a  decided  flavour  of  celery; 
when  the  plant  is  not  to  be  had,  the  crushed  seed  will 


154  BBOTHS  AKD  80UFS. 

give  it.  Bread  sliced  thin,  toasted,  and  cat  into  dice, 
should  be  passed  round  together  with  pease  soup.  The 
bouquet  and  the  addition  of  wine  have  not  been  men- 
tioned, but  are  left  to  individual  taste,  because  it  is 
not  desirable  to  make  all  soups  taste  alike — which  is  t 

an  occasional  fault  with  the  soups  and  made  dishes  of 
pastry-cook  shops:  thej  are  very  nice,  but  sometimes 
very  monotonous,  so  that  by  shutting  your  eyes  you  could 
not  teU  one  thing  from  another.  Dried  mint  in  powder 
is  orthodox  seasoning  to  a  plate  of  pease  soup. 

Pease  soup  is  fattening,  light,  and,  with  the  pork  re- 
turned to  it,  substantial,— Ksomprising  meat  and  drink  at 
once.  It  is  then  elevated  to  the  important  dass  specified 
by  the  Cleikum  Club  as  "  Soup  and  Stew,  or  Mouthful 
Soups — a  division  which  we  think  was  wanted  in  books 
that  treat  of  the  culinary  art"  A  plate  of  this  Pease 
Soup  on  a  winter^s  day  supplies  a  solid  fund  of  heat 
and  strength. 

By  having  in  the  house  ready-made  puree  of  pease 
and  the  soup  of  pot  au  feu  or  consomm^,  a  tureen  of 
pease  soup  can  be  served  in  ten  minutes  after  a  pro- 
fessional man  has  returned  home  chilled  and  weary. 

Green-Peaae  Soup.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  large  stew-pan.  When  hot, 
throw  into  it  three  pints  of  young  green  peas,  two 
cabbage-lettuces  shred  fine,  two  cucumbers  peeled  and 
sliced,  and  two  large  onions  sliced  with  their  green.  When 
nearly  fried  enough,  stir  in  smoothly  a  dessert-spoonftd 
of  flour.  Pour  in  gradually  throe  quarts  of  good  veal 
broth.     If  you  have  a  ham-bone,  put  it  in ;  if  not,  two 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  155 

or  three  slices  of  lean  ham,  likewise  three  or  four  mealy 
potatoes  mashed.  Let  all  simmer  a  couple  of  hom^s, 
Bldmmmg  off  any  fet  which  may  rise,  and  taking  care 
the  vegetables  do  not  stidc  to  the  bottom.  Before  serv- 
ing, remove  the  ham-bone,  and  throw  in  a  cupful  of 
boiled  green  peas,  with  the  Uquor  they  were  cooked  in. 
You  may  also  add  a  few  small  dice  of  either  fried  or 
toasted  bread. 

Green-Pease  Saup^  without  green  peasy  for  winter 
and  early  spring.  Force  in  mignionette  boxes  or  pots, 
in  a  hothouse  or  cucumber-frame,  peas  of  any  luxuriant 
variety,  sowing  them  thick  like  mustard-and-cress.  They 
may  even  be  grown  in  any  warm  room ;  but  the  quicker 
they  are  made  to  vegetate,  the  better.  When  three  or 
four  inches  high  and  well  greened,  cut  them  just  above 
the  ground.  Wash,  drain,  and  chop  them  fine,  as  you 
would  pardey  for  sauce. 

Prepare  a  good  dried-pease  soup,  making  the  stock 
with  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  reserving  two  or  three  pints 
of  it,  in  which  to  boil  the  chopped  pea-plants  until  they 
are  as  tender  as  cooked  sorrel  or  spinacL  Add  a  suffi- 
ciency of  this  to  the  dried -pease  soup  to  give  it  the 
required  flavour  and  colouring,  and  dusting  in  a  very 
little  powdered  lump-sugar  to  taste.  The  imitation  will 
be  still  more  complete  if  you  can  throw  in  a  small 
quantity  of  preserved  green  peas. 

Cucumber  Soupj  Brown.  Take  some  good  beef  stock 
or  consomm6 ;  thicken  it  slightly  with  firied  onions  and 
flour  done  to  a  roux  of  a  nice  bright  colour. 

Cut  cucumbers  into  pieces,  leaving  the  rind  on ;  boil 


156  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

them  till  quite  tender ;  let  them  drain  a  minute  in  tlio 
cullender,  and  then  squeeze  them  through,  to  make  a 
purfe.     The  skins  will  remain  in  the  cullender. 

Add  the  pur^e  to  the  stock;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  boil  up,  and  serve  with  dice  of  toast 

Cucumber  Soup^  White.  Peel  your  cucumbers,  cut 
them  in  pieces,  and  boil,  in  as  little  water  as  will  cover 
them,  until  reduced  nearly  to  a  pap.  Press  this  through 
a  cullender,  passing  to  it  also  the  water  remaining  from 
the  cucumbers. 

Have  some  good  veal  or  chicken  broth  or  consomm^ ; 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  fresh  milk ;  stir  in  the  pur^e 
of  cucumbers ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dust  of 
sugar. 

Lay  a  few  slices  of  bread  cut  very  thin  at  the  bottom 
of  your  soup-tureen,  and  when  your  soup  is  on  the  point 
of  boiling,  pour  it  into  the  tureen  over  the  bread. 

Purde  h  la  Crecy*  Having  made  soup  with  three 
large  carrots,  most  servants,  thinking  all  tlie  goodness  is 
out  of  them  J  will  throw  them  into  the  dust-hole  in 
London,  or  to  the  chicken  in  the  country.  Li  iuture, 
use  them  thus  the  next  day:  Rub  them  through  a 
cullender  or  a  wire  sieve ;  add  the  remainder  of  the  soup 
left  from  the  previous  day,  and  one  table-spoonful  of 
Carolina  rice  boiled  quite  soft.  This  will  then  be  a 
Pur^  k  la  Crecy,  and  should  be  of  the  consistency  of 
pea  soup.  Considering  you  would  otherwise  have  wasted 
the  carrots,  find  the  value  of  one  spoonftd  of  rice,  and 

*  Crecy,  near  AbberiUe,  in  France,  is  famous  for  our  Edward  IIL's 
victory,  and  for  carrots. 


B&OTHS  Aim  SOUPS.  157 

then  say  how  much  your  soup  costs. — London  Society j 
December  1863. 

Similar  Soups  are  easily  made  with  purees  of  par- 
snips,  potatoes,  onions,  turnips,  Jerusalem  artichokes,  or 
any  other  root  or  vegetable  which  may  be  liked,  to 
communicate  a  predominant  flavour. 

White  Soupy  A.  Cut  the  scrag  end  of  a  neck  of 
mutton  into  chops  or  thin  slices  ;  divide  a  knuckle  of 
veal  into  three  or  four  pieces.  Boil  these  in  three 
quarts  of  water,  witli  four  sheeps'  feet  (which  can  be 
bought  ready  cleaned),  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean 
bacon  or  ham,  a  bouquet  complete,  the  peel  of  half  a 
lemon,  two  or  three  onions,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  few 
peppercorns.  Let  them  cook  slowly,  closely  covered,  until 
all  the  meat  falls  away  to  rags.   Set  it  aside  all  night  to  cooL 

Next  day  remove  the  fat,  and  transfer  the  jelly  to 
another  saucepan,  leaving  all  the  shreds,  bones,  and 
sediment  remaining  at  the  bottom. 

For  thickening,  blanch  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet 
almonds,  and  beat  them  to  a  paste,  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  water,  in  a  marble  mortar.  To  prevent  their  oiling, 
mince  a  large  slice  of  cooked  veal  or  chicken  and  some 
orumb  of  stale  bread,  and  mix  them  with  the  pounded 
almonds.  Add  all  these  to  a  pint  of  cream,  and  boil 
them  with  the  fresh-cut  rind  of  the  other  half  lemon  and 
a  blade  of  mace  reduced  to  very  fine  powder.  Stir  in 
gradually  a  pint  of  the  warmed-up  jelly ;  strain  it  through 
a  large-holed  cullender,  pressing  it  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon,  and  let  all  boil  together  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
afterwards.     Salt  to  taste. 


158  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

Macaroni  in  short  bits,  or  yermioelli,  may  be  added 
to  ibis  soup.  They  sbonld  be  previously  boiled  tender 
in  a  little  of  the  first  jelly,  after  soaking  them  in  tepid 
water. 

WkUe  Soupf  B.  Simpler.  Boil  a  knuckle  of  veal 
in  water,  with  the  same  seasoning  as  above,  reducing  it 
to  three  or  four  pints. 

For  thickening,  stir,  over  the  fire,  a  little  ground 
rice  into  a  pint  of  milk,  to  which  add  a  little  salt  and  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  good  cream.  Boil  up  all  together 
before  serving,  stirring  carefttlly. 

Potage  h  la  Heine — Scup  for  a  Qiteeru  So  called 
either  because  Queens  only  enjoy  the  privilege  of  eating 
chicken  and  cream,  or  because  those  exalted  ladies  are 
supposed  to  be  blessed  with  good  digestions. 

Boil  a  couple  of  young  fowls,  with  a  bunch  of  parsley^ 
in  plenty  of  water  until  enough.  When  done,  take 
them  out,  skin  them,  and  cut  off  all  the  flesh.  Betnm 
the  skin,  the  bones,  and  sinews  to  the  broth,  and  let  all 
boil  together  till  well  reduced.     Then  strain  off. 

Chop  up  the  flesh  of  the  fowls  as  fine  as  you  can,, 
and  then  pound  it  in  a  mortar  with  half  a  dozen  blanched 
almonds,  a  couple  of  hard  egg-yolks,  and  some  crumb 
of  bread  soaked  in  the  broth.  While  pounding,  gradually 
moisten  with  broth,  and  work  till  all  is  smooth  enough 
to  press  through  a  strainer. 

Add  this  pur^  to  the  chicken  broth,  stirring  in  at 
the  same  time  a  pint  or  more  of  cream,  and  seasoning 
lightly  with  pepper  and  salt  This  operation  is  best  per- 
formed in  a  hot-water  bath,  as  the  soup  is  liable  to  curdle* 


BBOTHS  AKD  SOUPS.  15^ 

Before  pouring  the  soup  into  the  tureen,  toasted  or 
filed  bread  dice  may  be  laid  at  the  bottom ;  but  the  soup 
is  kept  whiter  by  adding  nothing  more  darkly  coloured 
than  rice  or  yermioelli  ready-cooked  in  the  broth. 

This  soup  may  be  made  still  more  rich  and  regal  by 
boiling  the  fowls  in  broth  instead  of  water. 

Fancy  Soup.     Slice  a  few  small  onions  into  a  stew-- 

pan,  with  two  or  three  carrots,  a  little  bit  of  ham,  and  a. 

good  piece  of  real.   Stew  these  together  over  a  good  fire, 

and  when  the  veal  begins  to  brown  nicely,  fill  up  with 

good  hot  broth,  and  let  them  simmer  till  the  veal  is- 

thoroughly  cooked,  and  has  conmiunicated  all  its  good* 

ness  to  the  soup.   Use  this,  strained,  to  make  your  stock. 

Soak,  at  the  bottom  of  your  soup-tureen,  tlie  crusts. 

of  a  couple  of  French  rolls  in  this  liquor.     Then  pound 

in  a  mortar  a  couple  of  hard  egg-yolks,  and  six  blanched 

almonds;   when  pounded  smooth,  stir  them  into  your 

soup  till  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  a  rather  thin  pur&}. 

If  too  thick,  you  will  have  to  pass  it  through  a  strainer. 

Heat  up  cautiously,  to  avoid  curdling,  and  pour  the  ptu:6e- 

over  the  soaked  roll-crusts. 

Ghrbures  form  a  class  of  pottages  of  which  Ude  says, 
'*  This  soup  is  never  seen  in  this  country ;  it  requires  a 
very  deep  and  a  very  large  dish."  An  earthen  one  is. 
usual,  but  a  silver  one  will  do.  Grarbures  are  thick  in 
consistency,  and  contain  Parmesan  or  Gruy^re  cheese, 
brown  bread  (properly  rye),  cabbage,  bacon,  and  other 
ingredients.  They  are  held  in  great  esteem  in  the 
Southern  provinces  of  France.  As  an  example,  for 
Cabbage  Garbure^  take  hearted  cabbages,  bind  them 


160  BROTHS  AND  80UPS. 

round  with  tape ;  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  slices  of 
bacon  at  the  bottom ;  add  carrots  and  onions^  season  with 
cloves,  and  fill  up  with  any  good  broth  you  have. 

When  the  cabbages  are  done  enough,  take  them  up, 
untie  them,  and  cut  them  in  slices,  which  put  at  the 
bottom  of  a  deep,  wide  dish,  placing  thin  slices  of  brown 
bread  between  each  layer  of  cabbage.  Dust  the  layers 
of  cabbage  with  pepper,  and  pour  a  little  of  the  broth  in 
which  they  were  cooked  over  all.  Set  the  dish  in  a  slow 
oven  for  a  few  minutes,  or  sprinkle  crumbs  on  the  top, 
and  brown  it  imder  a  salamander.  The  rest  of  the  broth 
is  served  separate  firom  the  pottage. 

A  garbure  is  made  with  solid-hearted  lettuces  in 
exactly  the  same  way  as  for  cabbages ;  with  gwrnmant^ 
a  kind  of  gourd ;  with  chesnuts,  onions,  leeks,  and  the 
a  whole  list  of  kitchen  vegetables ;  it  is  also  enriched, 
according  to  place  and  circumstance,  with  cheese, 
partridges,  sausages,  ham,  the  stewed  legs  of  knd  or 
water  fowl,  pigeons,  &c.  A  good  garbure  should  bear 
unmistakable  marks  of  having  been  baked  as  well  as 
boiled.  ^^  What  sticks  to  the  bottom  of  the  dish  is  most 
tasiy  and  palatable." 

NouUlea  Soup,  Nouilles  are  a  sort  of  home-made 
imitation  of  vermicelli  and  macaroni  paste,  produced 
by  mixing  flour,  eggs,  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg 
into  a  very  firm  paste.  Soil  it  out  very  thin,  and  cut 
into  long,  narrow  strips,  which  must  be  dusted  with  flour 
to  prevent  their  sticking  together.  Throw  these  into  your 
boiling  stock  broth  or  consomme,  and  let  them  cook 
briskly  for  twenty  minutes. 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  161 

Any  vegetable  pnr^,  at  disoretion,  may  be  added,  if 
it  be  wished  to  give  a  little  thickness  to  the  soup. 

Ox'taU  Soup,  One  large  or  two  small  tails  will  make 
soup  for  half  a  dozen  persons.  Knot  quite  fresh,  the  soup 
will  be  milky  and  perhaps  unsavomy.  Cut  them  into 
joints,  and  stew  them  slowly  for  three  or  four  hours, 
nntil  the  meat  comes  'easily  from  the  bones,  with  a 
sufficiency  of  water,  carrots,  onions,  pepper,  and  salt, 
taking  care  not  to  let  the  peculiar  flavour  of  the  ox-tail 
be  overpowered  by  any^other. 

'V\^en  done,  take  out  the  pieces  of  tail  whole,  and 
set  them  aside.  Thicken  the  stew  with  flour  and  fried 
onion ;  diluting  it  afterwards  with  good  consomme. 
Strain,  add  the  ox-tail,  boil  up,  and  serve. 

MuUigatavmy  Soup,  Slice  and  peel  twelve  good- 
sized  onions;  fry  them  in  butter,  with  a  full  table- 
spoonful  of  curry-powder.  Put  them  into  a  stew-pan 
with  two  quarts  of  good  veal  stock  and  a  small  quantity 
of  mace,  thickening  with  a  little  flour.  Stew  for  an  hour, 
and  pass  it  through  a  sieve.  Knot  quite  thick  enough, 
add  a  little  more  flour  and  butter.  Cut  up  a  cold 
chicken  into  small  pieces,  and  put  it  into  the  soup  with 
a  teacupfril  of  cream.     Give  a  final  boil  up,  and  serve. 

Giblet  Soup,  Swan  giblets  are  the  best,  then  Groose, 
then  Turkey,  then  Duck  and  Fowl.  For  water-birds, 
the  pinion  should  be  chopped  in  two  across;  the  feet 
scalded,  removing  the  outer  skin  and  the  claws.  For 
all,  cut  the  neck  into  short  pieces ;  split  the  head,  re- 
moving the  beak  and  eyes ;  divide  the  livers  into  two, 
and  the  gizzards  (well  cleaned,  and  peeled  of  the  hard, 

M 


162  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

white  skin)  into  foor  pieces.  Stew  these  tender  (the 
gizzards  will  take  longer  than  the  rest),  and  then  proceed 
exactly  as  with  ox-tail.  If  yon  make  jomr  stock  of  the 
hones  or  remains  of  ponltrj,  all  the  better.  Tou  may 
season  rather  highly  with  herbs  and  spice,  as  there  is  no 
fear  of  overpowering  the  giblet  flavour. 

Julienne  Soup.  There  is  a  class  of  soups,  useful, 
light,  agreeable,  and  susceptible  of  great  apparent 
variety,  but  which  are  simply  well-flavoured  broth  or 
consomm^,  with  the  addition  Cither  of  vegetables,  as 
julienne  soup,  or  of  preparations  of  flour  and  starch  in 
various  forms,  as  vermicelli,  tapioca,  sago,  and  the  like. 

For  julienne,  cut  into  very  fine,  narrow  strips, 
carrots,  turnips,  parsnips,  cabbage,  celery,  leeks,  pota- 
toes, onions,  each  in  equal  quantity.  Chop  some  lettuce, 
chervil,  and  sorrel.  Tou  may  add  (chopped  small,  or  in 
long,  narrow  strips)  the  green  tops  of  asparagus,  green 
kidney  beans,  green  peas  (whole) ;  in  short,  whatever 
vegetables  are  in  season. 

Mix  these,  and  put  them  all  together  in  a  stew-pan 
with  a  good  lump  of  butter  and  a  little  sugar  and  salt. 
Cover  them  close,  and  let  them  stew  a  few  minutes; 
then  add  your  broth,  and  boil  till  all  the  vegetables  are 
thoroughly  done.  It  is  not  usual  to  put  bread,  either  in 
crusts  or  toasted  dice,  into  julienne  soup.  Machines  or 
choppers  are  sold  for  cutting  the  vegetables  for  this 
wholesome  dish;  they  can  also  be  purchased  preserved 
dry.  N.B.  When  a  soup,  of  whatever  kind,  strikes  you 
as  particularly  agreeable  to  the  palate,  it  is  often  owing 
to  the  unsuspected  presence  of  a  very  slight  dust  of  sugar. 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  163 

Spring  Soup.  With  a  quart  of  green  peas,  take  a 
good  quantity  of  lettaoe,  purslane,  sorrel,  chervil,  and 
yoimg  oracfae  leaves.  Parsley,  spinach,  and  chives,  or 
spruig  onions,  may  be  added  if  liked.  Put  them  in  a 
close-covered  stew-pan,  with  a  lump  of  fresh  butter, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  water  or  broth.  Stew  them 
gently  over  a  slow  fire  untQ  enough.  Squeeze  them 
through  a  cullender,  so  as  to  obtain  a  smooth  pur4e. 
Dilute  that  to  the  thickness  you  like,  either  with  water 
or  with  broth.  Throw  in  some  rice  that  has  been  previ- 
ously boiled  (or,  instead  of  that,  a  few  grated  bread- 
crumbs) ;  season  to  taste,  and  let  it  simmer  another 
qoarter  of  an  hour.  Before  serving,  add  a  thickening 
made  with  two  or  three  yolks  of  e^. 

Potage  a  la  Jardinikre  —  Grardener^s  Soup.  Take 
potatoes,  turnips,  carrots,  celery,  and  leeks  in  sufficient 
quantity;  cut  them  in  pieces  more  or  less  big.  Put 
them  in  a  stew-pan  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  scald  them  a 
few  minutes  in  boiling  water.  Complete  their  c6oking 
with  broth  or  soup.  When  nearly  done,  throw  in  some 
green  peas,  asparagus-tops,  purslane-leaves,  or  other 
tender  vegetables,  as  time  and  place  allow. 

Pumpkin  Soup.  Cut  the  half  or  the  quarter  of  a 
pumpkin  into  slices,  according  to  size ;  peel  off  the  rind 
and  remove  the  seeds ;  cut  them  in  pieces  as  big  as  a 
walnut,  and  set  them  on  the  fire  covered  with  boiling 
water.  When  the  pumpkin  is  completely  reduced  to  a 
marmalade  or  pulp,  put  to  it  two  or  three  ounces  of 
butter  and  a  little  salt     Let  it  boil  another  turn  or  two. 

Boil  separately  a  quart  of  milk ;  flavour  it  with  a 


164  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

little  sugar  or  salt,  or  botli,  and  stir  it  into  the  pumpkin 
pur^a  Put  some  minced  bread  at  the  bottom  of  jour 
tureen,  and  pour  over  it  the  mixture  of  pumpkin  and 
milk. 

Onion  Soup.  Cut  a  dozen  middle-sized  onions  into 
shreds.  Brown  them  over  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a 
good  lump  of  butter,  turning  them  with  your  slioe  till 
thej  are  cooked  tender  and  sufficiently  browned.  Add  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  let  it  take  a  nice  colour.  Dilute 
with  boiling  broth  gradually,  season  with  salt  and 
peppercorns,  and  ^ve  it  a  boiL  Then  add  some  bread, 
either  grated  or  sliced ;  simmer  for  a  while,  and  serve. 

By  substituting  water  for  broth,  you  have  an  Onion 
Soup  Maiffre.  You  may  get  rid  of  the  onions,  before  add- 
ing the  bread,  by  passing  the  soup  through  a  cullender ; 
the  Doctor  advises  to  let  them  remain,  as  being  both 
nutritive  and  medicinal.  Beplacing  the  water  by  mUk, 
you  get  an  Onion  and  Milk  Soup  Maigre.  N.B.  In  these 
soups  in  which  bread  is  laid  at  the  bottom  of  the  soup- 
tureen  or  added  to  the  broth,  care  must  be  taken  (as 
directed  for  bread  sauce)  not  to  put  too  much  bread  in 
proportion  to  the  quantity  of  soup. 

Rice  and  Onion  Soup.  Proceed  exactly  as  before; 
only,  instead  of  bread,  add  some  ready-cooked  rice ;  boil 
up  and  serve.  This  soup  may  also  be  made  meagre, 
and  is  excellent  either  way. 

Tapioca  Soup*  Tapioca  lends  itself  to  a  variety  of 
usages,  by  simple  washing  and  soaking  and  boiling 
slowly  in  water  set  on  cold.  The  separate  grains  should 
not  lose  their  form.     It  is  then  ready  either  for  con- 


BROTHS  AlO)  SOUPS.  165 

t 

version  into  jeUies,  creams,  and  puddings,  by  combination 
with  wine,  milk,  eggs,  &c.,  or  for  giving  substance  to 
soups.  As  in  this  state  it  will  take  any  flavour,  it  is 
convenient  for  supplying  a  basin  of  good  soup,  or  an 
agreeable  sweet  dish,  in  oaae  of  hurry  or  emergency. 
But  there  is  nothing  to  prevent  tapioca  for  soup  being 
boiled  in  stock-broth^  or  tapioca  for  puddings  being 
boiled  in  milk. 

Put  as  much  ready-boiled  tapioca  into  your  stock  as 
will  bring  it  to  the  consistency  of  good  pease  soup. 
There  ought  never  to  be.  a  mere  sediment  of  tapioca  at 
the  bottom  of  your  tureen,  covered  and  drowned  by  an 
ocean  of  broth.  .The  tapioca  should  pervade  the  soup. 
Flavour  with  whatever  you  like.  The  ordinary  vege- 
tables are  most  commonly  employed. 
Saffo  Soup.  Exactly  as  above* 
Arrowroot  Soup,  Any  soup  or  broth,  particularly 
white  soups,  may  be  thickened  with  arrowroot  Put  a 
small  quantity  in  a  basin,  add  some  of  the  broth  drop  by 
drop,  working  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  till  it  is  of  the 
consistency  of  thick  mustard.  Stir  this  into  the  soup, 
and  boil  up  well  afterwards. 

Bice  AfUky  Savoury.  Rice — that  curious  product  of 
nature,  to  which  may  be  literally  applied  the  expression 
of  ^^  casting  your  bread  upon  the  waters,  and  finding  it 
afler  many  days," — ^rice,  amphibious  in  its  origin,  allies 
itself  with  equally  harmonious  effects  to  either  of  the 
grand  divisions  of  alimentary  materials — ^to  savouries  or 
sweets,  to  meat,  fish,  fruit,  or  vegetables.  Rice  is  the 
Proteus  of  the  kitchen,  assuming  every  form,  thick  or 


166  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

thin,  fat  or  lean,  solid  or  liquid.  As  a  crust,  it  forms 
the  most  honourable  mausoleum  in  which  to  entomb  a 
fricassee  of  fowl ;  it  gives  substance  to  soup,  it  combines 
with  every  sort  of  pur^ ;  it  supplies  an  indispensable 
check  to  the  excitements  of  cuny ;  it  surrounds  the 
capon  with  an  elegant  garnish,  imbibing  a  great  part  of 
his  succulence.  At  the  third  course  it  helps  us  to  creams 
and  puddings ;  at  dessert,  reduced  to  flour,  it  figures  in 
cakes.  It  adopts  every  disguise  in  order  to  please,  and 
almost  always  succeeds  in  pleasing.  Rice  is  welcomed 
with  approbation  by  every  judicious  and  impartial  eater. 
Rice-milk  pure  is  better  suited  to  the  nursery  than  for 
consumption  by  adults.  Take,  therefore,  half  milk  and 
half  veal  or  chicken  broth.  Put  them  on  the  fire  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  sufficiency  of  rice  that  has  been  steeped 
all  night  in  soft  water.  Add  one  or  two  small  white 
onions  chopped  very  fine,  a  little  salt,  and  a  small  pinch 
of  white  pepper,  if  liked.  Boil,  stirring  frequently,  to 
prevent  the  milk  from  burning  and  the  rice  from  sticking^ 
to  the  bottom,  until  the  rice  is  quite  tender,  without  being 
dissolved.  The  object  of  the  onion  and  salt  is  to  relieve 
the  insipidiiy  of  the  milk,  rather  than  to  give  a  decided 
flavour. 

Rice  Milky  Sweet.  Boil  previously  steeped  rice,  as 
before,  in  half  milk  and  half  water,  flavouring  with  a 
small  pinch  of  salt,  sufficient  sugar,  the  rind  of  half  a 
lemon  or  half  an  orange,  and  either  cinnamon,  mace,  or 
nutmeg,  as  preferred.     When  done,  take  it  off  the  fire. 

Beat  up  (not  froth)  in  a  basin  one  or  two  eggs,  gra- 
dually adding  a  little  of  the  warm  milk.     When  this 


BROTHS  Am)  SOUPS.  167 

mixture  is  nicely  blended,  combine  it  carefnllj  with  the 
rice-milk  in  the  saucepan,  which  must  not  boil  afterwards. 
Half  a  glass  of  white  wine,  or  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
brandy,  are  legitimate  additions  to  Bice  Milk,  Sweet. 
Both  the  above  preparations  may  be  varied  by  using 
ground  rice  instead  of  whole. 

Apph  Soup  (German).  Peel  fresh  apples,  cut  out 
their  cores,  and  boil  them  thoroughly  with  grated  crumb 
of  bread,  lemon-peel  and  lemon-juice,  cinnamon  and 
cardamum,  or  other  aromatic  seeds.  When  cooked  to  a 
pulp,  mb  them  through  a  sieve.  Add  white  wine,  and 
sweeten  to  your  taste.     Serve  with  toasted  bread. 

Cherry  Soup  (German).  Pluck  the  cherries  from 
their  stalks,  and  boil  them  enough  in  water,  with  cinna- 
mon, lemon-peel,  and  lemon-juice.  Then  add  wine  and 
sugar,  and  serve  it  poured  over  bread  cut  into  dice  and 
fried  in  butter.  Tou  may  also  pound  a  few  cherries 
smaD,  boil  them  in  water,  and  pass  them  through  a  sieve. 
This  soup  may  likewise  be  made  with  dried  cherries  and 
pearl-barley,  boiled  several  hours  in  water,  passed 
through  a  sieve,  and  then  served  as  above.  N.B.  An 
earthen  or  metal  cullender  or  strainer  is  surer  to  be  clean 
and  sweet  than  a  horsehair  sieve. 

OcU^GrocUs  Soup  (Grerman).  Stir  up  the  groats  in 
boiling  water  with  a  bit  of  butter  as  big  as  a  walnut, 
until  they  are  cooked  enough.  Pass  through  a  sieve  or 
cullender,  and  add  lemon-peel,  cinnamon,  white  wine, 
and  sugar.  Set  it  on  the  fire  again  to  boil.  If  it  is 
wished  to  have  raisins  in  it,  they  must  be  previously 
steeped  until  they  are  well  swollen.     On  serving,  you 


168  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS* 

may  stir  in  some  oream  and  three  or  four  yolks  of  egg, 
with  a  little  toasted  bread  to  swim  on  the  top. 

Wine  Soup  (German).  Take  a  little  water ,  and  mix 
with  it  lemon-peel  chopped  very  fine,  some  pounded 
cardamum  seeds,  pounded  sugar,  and  grated  bread  made 
of  fine  rye-flour  from  which  the  bran  has  been  thoroughly 
sifi}ed.  Stir,  and  boil  until  enough,  and  then  add  the 
wine  to  it 

Wine  Soupy  with  an  Island  of  Bread  (German).  Take 
a  good  quantity  of  well-baked  rye-bread  ;  you  may  mix 
with  it  a  portion  of  white  bread,  if  you  like.  Fry  it  in 
butter,  powder  it  with  sugar,  and  while  still  warm  press 
it  together  into  a  heap  or  mound  in  the  middle  of  your 
disL  Then  take  two  parts  of  German  wine  and  one  of 
water;  boil  the  same  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  carda- 
mum ;  and  then  stir  up  with  it  a  few  yolks  of  eggs. 
Pour  this  over  the  mound  of  bread,  which  you  can 
now  garnish  with  orange-peel,  almonds,  or  rose-hips. 
You  can  make  this  soup  in  the  same  way  with  beer,  and 
can  also  stick  currants  in  the  island  of  bread. 

Rye-Bread  Soup  (German).  Take  wine  and  water 
(the  former  predominating),  grate  rye-bread  into  it,  add 
finely  chopped  lemon-peel  and  sugar,  and  boil  all  well 
together.  Then  stir  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Instead 
of  the  water,  you  may  use  sweetwort  or  pale  beer, 
flavouring  with  pounded  cardamum. 

Beer  Soup^  with  Cream  (Grerman).  To  one  quart  of 
beer  add  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  a  little  sugar,  salt,  and  allspice.  Let  it  boil; 
then  further  add  a  spoonful  of  flour  well  mixed  in  a  little 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  169 

cold  cream ;  boil  up  again ;  and  lastly  throw  in  two 
yolks  of  egg  also  mixed  with  a  little  cream. 

Beer  Soup  for  Supper j  or  towards  the  close  of  a  Ball 
(Gl^rman).  Put  one  quart  of  white  beer  (i  e.  not  porter, 
nor  high-coloured  beer),  a  wine-glass  of  red  wine,  eight 
yolks  of  eggs,  a  little  cinnamon  and  sugar,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt,  into  a  deep  saucepan.  Stir  untU  it  begins  to  boil 
up ;  then  serve  hot  in  cups. 

Vermicelli  Soup.  Break  vermicelli  into  convenient 
lengths ;  wash  and  steep  it  in  cold  soft  water.  Boil  it 
tender  separately,  in  a  little  of  the  stock  to  which  it  is  to 
be  added ;  a  good  clear  consomm^  is  the  best.  Heat  up 
all  together,  and  serve.  The  same  of  macaroni  and 
other  Italian  pastes. 

With  these  soups,  grated  white  cheese  (parmesan, 
gruydre,  or  other)  is  offered  to  each  guest  in  a  dish  with 
a  spoon. 

BriUat  SavarirCs  Elixir  of  Life ;  a  restorative  after 
exhaustion.  By  exhaustion  is  understood  a  state  of 
weakness,  languor,  and  prostration,  the  result  of  ante- 
cedent circumstances,  which  renders  the  exercise  of  the 
vital  functions  more  difficult.  Without  reckoning  the 
debility  produced  by  the  privation  of  sufficient  food,  in 
respect  either  to  its  quantity  or  its  quality,  exhaustion 
may  be  brought  on  by  bodily  fatigue,  by  overstrained 
mental  efforts,  and  by  too  great  an  addiction  to  the  plea- 
sures of  life.  But  from  whatever  cause  it  has  proceeded, 
the  first  step  to  a  remedy  is  immediate  cessation  from  the 
acts  which  have  brought  on,  if  not  exactly  a  morbid  con- 
dition, at  least  something  very  closely  approaching  to  it. 


170  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

After  this  indispensable  preliminaiy,  oookeiy  can 
offer  the  resources  which  it  has  at  its  command.  To 
the  sufferer  worn  out  by  the  prolonged  exertion  of  his 
muscular  strength,  it  offers  good  soup,  generous  wine, 
the  meat  of  ftdl-grown  animals,  and  sleep.  To  the 
writer  or  student  who  has  allowed  himself  to  be  carried 
awaj  bj  the  charms  of  his  subject,  it  prescribes  out-door 
exercise  to  refresh  his  brain,  bathing  to  soothe  his 
irritated  nerves,  poultry,  green  vegetables,  and  repose. 
On  the  worn-out  pleasure-hunter  it  imposes  a  quiet 
life,  and  a  simple  yet  nutritious  diet  In  all  these  cases 
may  be  administered  either  Elixir  Ay  suited  to  robust 
constitutions,  decided  characters,  people  who  exhaust 
themselves  with  action,  or  the  second  milder  for- 
mula. 

A.  Take  six  large  onions,  three  carrots,  and  a  hand- 
ful of  parsley ;  chop  them  up  together,  and  throw  them 
into  a  saucepan,  in  which  you  will  heat  and  brown  them 
by  means  of  a  lump  of  good  fresh  butter. 

When  this  mixture  is  pretty  well  cooked,  add  thereto 
six  ounces  of  sugar-candy,  twenty  grains  of  pounded 
amber,  with  a  toasted  crust  of  bread  and  three  bottles 
of  water,  which  you  will  boil  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  adding  fresh  water  to  replace  the  loss  by 
evaporation,  so  that  there  shall  always  be  three  bottles  of 
liquid  in  the  saucepan. 

While  this  is  taking  place,  kill,  pluck,  and  empty  an 
old  cock,  whom  you  will  cut  into  joints  and  pound  (bones 
and  all)  in  a  mortar  with  an  iron  pestle.  In  like  manner 
chop  up  two  pounds  of  the  very  best  lean  beef.  That  done, 


BBOTHS  AND  S0X7PS.  171 

mix  the  two  meate  together,  seaaoning  with  a  sufficiency 
of  pepper  and  salt 

Put  them  in  a  saucepan  over  a  brisk  iSre,  so  as  to 
let  them  get  thoroughly  heated,  throwing  in  fix>m  time 
to  time  a  little  fresh  butter,  in  order  to  favier  the  mix- 
ture well,  without  its  sticking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 

When  it  is  nicely  browned,  jou  strain  the  broth 
which  is  in  the  other  saucepan,  and  pour  it,  little  by 
little,  into  the  second,  stirring  meanwhile  nntfl  it  is  afl 
there.  Tou  then  let  it  boil  galloping  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  taking  care  to  add  hot  water,  so  ad  always  to 
have  the  same  quantity  of  liquid.  At  the  end  of  that 
time,  the  operation  is  complete,  and  you  have  a  potion 
whose  beneficial  effects  are  infallible,  supposing  that  the 
patient — ^however  exhausted  by  any  of  the  above-men- 
tioned causes— has  a  stomach  which  stiU  performs  its 
fimctions. 

The  dose  is,  the  first  day,  a  cupfiil  every  three 
hours  until  bedtime;  the  following  days,  a  breakfast- 
cupful  morning  and  night  only,  until  the  three  bottles 
are  emptied.  The  patient  is  kept  to  a  light  but  nutri- 
tious diet,  such  as  the  thighs  of  fowls,  fish,  ripe  fruit, 
preserves.  It  rarely  happens  that  a  firesh  pot  of  soup 
has  to  be  made.  About  the  fourth  day,  he  may  resume 
his  ordinary  occupations,  and  ought  to  try  to  be  more 
prudent  for  the  future — if  possible. 

By  suppressing  the  amber  and  the  sugar-candy,  you 
can  by  this  method  improvise  a  high-flavoured  soup, 
worthy  to  be  set  before  a  party  of  connoisseurs.  If  the 
old  cock  be  replaced  by  four  old  partridges,  and  the  beef 


172  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

by  the  same  qoantity  of  leg  of  mutton,  the  resultrng 
preparation  will  be  neither  less  efficacious  nor  less  agree- 
able. 

The  plan  of  chopping  up  the  meat  and  browning  it 
in  butter  before  moistening  it  with  the  broth  may  be 
generalised  in  every  case  where  time  is  pressing ;  and 
when  the  exhaustion  is  extreme,  delays  are  dangerous, 
if  not  fatal.  It  is  based  on  the  principle  that  meat  so 
treated  becomes  charged  with  more  caloric  (or,  since 
caloric  is  obsolete,  is  heated  to  a  higher  temperature) 
than  it  could  be  in  water.  It  can,  therefore,  be  employed 
on  every  occasion  when  a  good  meat  soup  is  wanted, 
without  having  to  wait  for  it  five  or  six  hours.  Such 
oc(;asions  are  frequent,  especially  in  the  country.  It  is 
understood  that  all  who  make  use  of  it  will  glorify  the 
inventor  (and  also  the  present  communicator)  of  the 
mode. 

N.B.  It  is  right  that  every  body  should  know  that 
aml3er,  considered  as  a  perfume,  may  be  injurious  to  the 
uninitiated  whose  nerves  are  delicate ;  taken  internally, 
it  is  sovereignly  tonic  and  exhilarating.  Our  ancestors 
employed  it  largely  in  the  kitchen,  and  found  themselves 
none  the  worse  for  it 

Marshal  Richelieu  habitually  kept  an  ambered  pastille 
in  his  mouth.  For  my  own  part,  whenever  I  (Brillat 
Savarin)  find  myself  in  one  of  those  days  when  the 
weight  of  age  makes  itself  felt,  when  thought  flows 
sluggishly,  and  one  feels  overpowered  by  an  imaccustomed 
oppression,  I  mix  with  a  little  sugar,  in  a  strong  cup  o^ 
chocolate,  a  quantity  of  pounded  amber  about  the  size  of 


BBOTHS  AKB  SOUPS.  173 

a  horse-bean,  and  have  always  derived  wonderful  benefit 
from  it  By  means  of  this  tonic,  vital  action  is  freely 
performed  and  thought  «  ea^,  without  the  deprivation 
of  sleep,  which  would  be  the  inevitable  consequence  of  a 
cup  of  coffee  taken  for  the  purpose  of  producing  the 
same  effect 

Elixir  B.  Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  weighing  at  least 
two  pounds  and  a  half.  Split  it  into  four,  lengthwise, 
bone  and  flesh.  Brown  it  with  butter  in  a  saucepan? 
with  four  sliced  onions  and  a  handfrd  of  watercress. 
When  it  is  nearly  cooked  enough,  pour  over  it  three 
bottles  of  water.  Boil  two  hours,  taking  care  to  replace  the 
quantity  evaporated.  Season  moderately  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  you  will  have  a  stock  of  excellent  Yeal  Broth. 

Pound  separately  three  old  pigeons,  and  twenty- 
five  living  fresh-water  crawfish  [if  not  to  be  had,  take 
twice  the  number  of  prawns  or  shrimps].  Mix  them 
together,  and  brown  them  in  butter,  as  directed  for 
Elixir  A ;  and  when  you  see  that  £he  heat  has  penetrated 
the  mass,  and  that  it  is  beginning  to  get  crispy,  add  the 
veal  broth  to  it,  and  boil  galloping  for  an  hour.  The 
broth,  so>  enriched,  is  to  be  strained.  It  may  be  taken 
morning  and  night,  or  at  morning  only.  It  is  also  a 
delicious  soup. 

Poached'Egg  Soup.  Have  ready  the  required  quantity 
of  well-flavoured  stock  broth.  When  it  boils,  take  as 
many  eggs  as  there  are  to  be  persons  at  table,  and  poach 
them  in  it  as  hereafter  directed.  When  done,  take  them 
out  with  a  slice  or  skimmer,  lay  them  on  a  warm  dish, 
and  trim  off  any  ragged  edges. 


174  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

Put  a  thin  layer  of  bread-dioe  (toasted  or  fried)  at 
the  bottom  of  your  soup-tureen ;  on  this  deposit  your 
poached  eggs^  taking  care  not  to  break  the  yolks^  and 
pour  over  all  the  boiling  stock  through  a  cullender. 

In  servings  distribute  one  poached  egg  and  a  portion 
of  bread-dice  in  each  person's  plate. 

Fried  Bread-Dicefar  Soups.  The  Doctor  recommends 
simply  toasted  dice ;  but  for  those  who  vrUl  have  them 
fried,  do  it  thus : 

Cut  the  crumb  of  stale  bread  into  dice,  and  let  them 
dry  a  little  before  the  fire,  turning  them  occasionaUy. 

Have  a  deep  frying  pan  (see  chapter  Operations, 
page  51)  half  full  of  the  best  olive-oil,  fresh  butter,  or 
sweet  pork-lard.  When  hot  enough  (which  you  will 
ascertain  by  trjring  it  with  a  strip  of  bread),  plunge 
your  dice  into  it,  and  the  moment  they  are  brown  enough, 
take  them  out  with  your  shoe.  Let  them  drain  awhile 
on  a  towel,  and  they  are  ready  to  serve.  Dice  so  fried 
will  be  much  more  crisp  and  less  greasy  than  if  done  in 
a  shallow  frying-pan,  with  a  little  butter,  by  turning 
them  over  from  side  to  side.  If  the  quantity  of  fat 
required  be  complained  of,  the  Doctor  replies  that  it  will 
serve  for  other  purposes,  and  that  you  can't  expect  to 
make  Egyptian  bricks  without  straw,  nor  to  cook  without 
consuming  fuel,  nor  to  fry  without  fat. 

Meager  Broth  A  basis  for  all  the  varieties  of  soup- 
maigre,  and  of  sauces  to  serve  with  meager  dishes. 

Slice  into  a  soup-kettle  ten  carrots,  as  many  turnips 
and  onions,  two  lettuces,  two  sticks  of  celery,  one  parsnip, 
half  a  cabbage,  and  a  handfril  of  chervil     Add  to  these 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  175 

vegetables  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  a  pint  of  water. 
Cover  close,  and  let  it  boil  gentlj  till  there  is  hardly  any 
liquid  left  in  the  pot.  Then  fill  up  with  boiling  water, 
and  add  either  a  quart  of  green  pease  or  the  pur6e  fh,m 
a  quart  of  split  pease,  two  or  three  cloves,  pepper  and 
salt.  Continue  te  boil  for  three  or  four  hours,  and  pass 
the  bfoth  through  a  cullender. 

Sorrel  and  Potato  Soup^Maigre.  Boil  your  potatoes 
separately ;  mealy  ones  are  the  best  When  done,  take 
them  out,  drain  well,  and  mash  fine. 

Take  a  couple  of  handfuls  of  sorrel,  strip  the  green 
part  of  the  leaves  away  from  the  midrib ;  wash,  chop 
them  coarsely,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  good 
lump  of  butter.  When  stewed  te  a  pulp,  add  a  little 
meager  broth,  then  mix  in  your  mashed  potatoes,  fill  up 
with  more  broth  to  the  quantity  required,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  boil  up  again,  and  serve  accompanied  by 
toasted  bread-dice. 

The  extent  to  which  vegetable  meager  soups  may  be 
varied  is  almost  incalculable.  The  above  receipts  convey 
the  principle  on  which  the  whole  of  them  are  prepared. 
They  may  be  easily  thickened,  either  with  yolk  of  egg, 
or  arrowroot,  or  other  farinaceous  substance.  The  intelli- 
gent cook  will  have  no  difficulty  in  composing,  for  occa- 
sions of  abstinence  firom  meat,  pottages  to  be  named 
after  such  leading  constituents  as  lentils,  haricots,  beans, 
celery,  leeks,  cabbages,  turnips,  spinach,  cauliflower,  and 
the  like.  They  are  equally  agreeable  and  wholesome  to 
persons  whose  business  keeps  them  much  confined  in 
towns ;  and  they  can  always  be  made  better  by  the  use  of 


176  BROTHS  AND  S0UP8, 

broth  instead  of  water,  when  no  reasons  of  ccmscienoe  or 
health  prevent.  The  only  difficulty  is,  that  some  of  the 
small  herbs — as  chervil,  orache,  purslane,  chives — are 
not  found  in  every  market ;  but  they  are  of  the  easiest 
culture  for  those  who  have  a  garden,  and  would  be 
quickly  forthcoming  were  any  demand  for  them  to  arise. 

Flint  Brotfu  A  soldier,  travelling  on  foot  to  join  his 
regiment,  reached  a  solitary  farmhouse  at  about  two 
o'clock  on  a  summer's  afternoon.  The  kitchen-door 
stood  wide  open,  and  allowed  him  to  see  an  active  old 
dame  busily  turning  a  barrel-chum.  Every  body  else 
was  at  work  in  the  fields.  He  gave  a  respectful  military 
salute;  but  before  he  could  cross  the  threshold,  she 
screamed  to  him : 

"  It's  no  use  your  coming  here ;  we  never  give  any 
thing  to  tramps." 

"  I'm  not  a  tramp,  ma'am,"  he  replied ;  "  but  a 
soldier,  tired  and  hungry  too ;  and  I  don't  ask  you  to 
give  me  any  thing,  only  to  let  me  boil  some  broth  out  of 
this  bit  of  flint." 

"  It's  poor  broth  you'll  get  out  of  that,  when  you 
have  washed  it  clean.  But  you'll  have  to  go  and  fetch 
the  water  from  the  well." 

^^  Certainly,  ma'am ;  and  a  bucket  or  two  besides  for 
you,  if  you  want  them,  with  the  greatest  of  pleasure." 

"  Bring  me  tliree,  then,  and  pour  them  into  the 
water-tub  there.  Very  good.  I  see  you're  a  handy 
young  man.  There's  the  fire,  and  there's  the  pot ;  you'll 
have  to  make  your  flint  broth  yourself.  I've  enough  to 
do  to  attend  to  my  churn." 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  177 

^^  May  I  go  into  the  garden,  ma'am,  to  pick  a  few 
green  leaves,  jnst  to  give  a  little  taste  to  my  broth, 
ma'am  ?" 

"  You  may,  if  you  like.  You'll  find  plenty  of  green 
weeds,  and  not  much  else.  Farmers  like  we,  with  a 
little  bit  o'  land,  can't  waste  our  time  about  our  gardens. 
— ^What  a  while  he  is  gone!  I'm  thinking  he'll  be 
stripping  the  gooseberry-bushes. — ^Well,  what  have  you 
got  there  ?    A  couple  of  lettuces  I" 

"Yes,  ma'am;  you  see  they're  starting  for  seed; 
they'd  be  good  for  nothing  the  day  after  to-morrow." 

"  Maybe;  and  parsley,  and  chives,  and  young  celery- 
plants  I     Why,  I  didn't  know  we  had  any  in  the  garden." 

**  Plenty,  ma'am,  only  smothered  with  weeds ;  so  I 
pulled  up  the  weeds,  and  threw  them  over  the  hedge. 
You'll  have  parsley  and  diives,  now,  all  smnmer  long, 
and  perhaps  all  winter  toa" 

(Adde.)  "  They'll  fetch  a  penny  a  bunch  at  market" 
(Aloud.)  "  You  know,  we  never  give  nothing  to  nobody, 
but  you  may  cut  a  thin  slice  of  bacon  to  put  in  your 
broth.     With  that,  you  won't  want  any  salt" 

*^  Thank  you,  ma'am,  very  kindly ;  and  I  hope  you 
won't  be  angry  if,  in  pulling  up  the  weeds,  I  pulled  up, 
quite  by  accident,  these  three  carrots." 

"  Well,  well,  I  suppose  it  couldn't  be  helped ;  a 
carrot  more  or  less  won't  send  us  to  the  workhouse. 
You  may  take  the  cold  potatoes  that  stand  on  that  shelf; 
you  can  eat  your  broth  out  of  the  basin ;  and  there's  a 
little  pepper  left  in  the  pepper-box.  But,  bless  me  I  how 
the  hens  are  cackling,  and  I  haven't  had  time  to  gather 


178  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

ihe  eggs  to-day;  I  can't  be  in  two  places  at  once;  I 
can't  be  at  the  chum  and  in  hen-roost  too." 

^^m  torn  the  chum,  ma'am,  while  yon  are  gone. 
My  broth,  you  see,  is  cooking  nicely. — I've  kept  to  your 
stroke,  ma'am,  and  the  butter  is  come.  What  beautiful 
eggs  I  of  the  Scotohy  Chayney  breed  I  What  a  pity  that 
two  of  them  should  have  got  a  crack !" 

^^  I  don't  see  the  cracks ;  but  your  eyes  are  better 
than  mine.  They're  no  good  to  sell ;  and  we  don't  feed 
our  ploughboys  on  Scotchy  Chayney  eggs.  There ;  you 
may  have  them,  just  for  this  once.  I'll  like  to  see  what 
you'll  do  with  them." 

^' Thank  ye,  ma'am,  very  much  indeed,  ma'am.  I 
do  this :  I  break  the  eggs,  at  the  place  that  was  cracked, 
into  the  bottom  of  the  basin.  I  stir  them  up  with  a 
little  of  the  broth ;  then  I  pour  all  the  rest  of  the  broth 
into  the  basin.  I  put  the  flint  into  my  pocket,  to  serve 
for  next  time,  in  case  there  should  still  be  any  goodness 
left  in  it ;  and  I  break  into  my  broth  this  crust  of  bread, 
which  I  saved  on  purpose  from  my  breakfast  this  morning." 

"  Nay,  nay,  young  man,  keep  your  crust  for  your 
supper ;  you  may  cut  a  good  slice  off  that  brown  loaf. 
I  see  you're  very  different  to  the  travellers  who  won't  go 
away  till  you  give  'em  a  penny,  and  who  coax  victuals 
out  of  silly  girls  under  pretence  of  telling  their  fortunes. 
Sure,  your  flint  broth's  ekernomical,  and  smells  very 
good.     If  I  hadn't  had  my  dinner,  I'd  taste  it  myself." 

Fish  Soups  are  hardly  acclimatised  on  the  generality 
of  English  dinner-tables,  although  few  countries  afford 
better  materials,  or  a  better  climate,  for  making  them. 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  179 

Fish  kept  several  days,  slighilj  salted  and  boiled,  is  often 
excellent  in  itself,  although  the  soup  made  from  it  would 
not  be  delicate.  The  stronger  flavours  acquired  by  fish  pass 
away  into  the  boiling  water.  Indeed,  in  many  people's 
opinion,  certain  fish  (as  torbot,  cod,  and  skate)  may  be, 
boiled  too  firesh ;  just  as  Qeorge  L  did  not  relish  firesh 
oysters,  but  preferred  them  three  or  four  days  old,  like 
those  he  used  to  eat  at  Hanover.  It  is  a  matter  of  habit 
and  locality.  But  for  soups,  fish  cannot  be  too  fresh  : 
they  should  jump  out  of  the  river  or  the  sea  into  the  pot. 
And  that,  in  &ct,  is  the  way  in  which  fish  soups  are 
made  in  the  south  of  Europe,  where  they  are  not  only 
popular,  but  are  highly  esteemed  in  the  upper  regions  of 
society.  On  the  Continent,  in  general,  fish  soups  of 
most  simple  and  unpretending  appearance  are  often  very 
costly  affairs. 

On  the  other  hand,  frozen  fish  is  neither  good  for 
soups  nor  for  any  thing  else.  The  northern  nations  eat 
it  out  of  necessity,  not  choice.  The  convenience  of 
transport  gained  is  more  than  outbalanced  by  the  dete- 
rioration of  qualify.  The  effects  of  frost  are  to  rend  the 
tissues,  and  to  reduce  them  to  a  tasteless  pulp,  whose 
very  wholesomeness  is  questionable.  If  such  is  the  case 
with  the  most  substantial  meats,  it  is  still  more  so  with 
delicate  muscle,  like  that  of  fish.  Meat  or  fish,  once 
frozen,  soon  putrefy  after  thawing ;  they  should  be  used 
immediately,  or  not  at  alL  Befrozen,  it  is  difficult  to 
ascertain  their  actual  condition,  and  their  consumption 
may  cause  serious  derangement  to  health.  Shell-fish 
and  crustaceans,  as  oysters  and  lobsters,  are  soon  struck 


180  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

dead  by  exposure  to  frosty  air.  A  few  hours  afterwards 
they  become  worse  than  worthless — absolutely  injurious. 
Therefore,  as  a  precautionary  rule,  never  buy  fish  during 
the  continuance  of  a  frosi 

^^  That  is  hard  upon  the  fishmongers/'  it  will  be  said; 
^^  it  is  not  their  fault  if  Providence  sends  irost  at  certain 
seasons."  True ;  but  we  hold  that,  during  firost,  fish, 
for  the  time,  is  out  of  season.  For  the  sake  of  putting 
money  into  fishmongers'  pockets,  we  are  no  more  obliged 
to  eat  fish  then^  than  we  are  when  it  is  periodically  out 
of  season  at  the  naturally  appointed  times  of  the  year. 
They  deal  in  a  perishable  article,  and  calculate  their 
profits  accordingly.  But  if  the  fisherman  and  the  fish- 
monger, by  their  care,  can  preserve  fish  from  being 
frozen,  from  the  time  of  its  capture  to  its  being  brought 
to  table,  such  fish,  if  naturally  in  season,  is  good  in  the 
depth  of  the  severest  winter.  As  to  the  tales  of  fish  in 
Russia  being  frozen  in  blocks  of  ice  alive,  transported  to 
long  distances,  and  then  thawed  and  taken  out  alive,  the 
Doctor  will  believe  the  fact  when  he  witnesses  it — 
perhaps ;  for  seeing  is  not  always  believing.  Until  then, 
he  would  like  to  know  the  species  of  fish  which  are 
capable  of  bearing  such  singular  treatment  Some  of 
our  own  fish,  otherwise  tenacious  of  life  (the  eel,  for 
instance),  cannot  bear  extremes  of  heat  or  cold. 

The  British  Isles,  therefore,  ought  to  be  a  paradise 
of  fish-eaters :  their  climate,  a  happy  mean  between  heat 
and  cold,  is  perfectly  adapted  to  the  constitutions  of  all 
fish  out  of  water ;  and  they  have  the  two  Channels  (the 
English  and  St.  George's),  the  (German  Ocean,  and  the 


BROTHS  AND  SOUPS.  181 

Atlantic,  for  their  fish-ponds,  all  whose  waters  enjoy  the 
double  advantage  of  being  neither  too  salt  nor  too  warm, 
as  the  Mediterranean  is. 

Waters  too  salt  are  adverse  to  the  &ttening  and 
thriftiness  of  most  fish,  probably,  also,  to  their  increase  : 
witness  the  ascent  of  rivers  by  fish  to  deposit  their 
spawn,  which  gives  us  the  pleasure  of  receiving  their 
visits.     Warm  seas  produce  but  poor-fleshed  fish.     The 
temperature  of  the  Mediterranean  waters  is  four  or  five 
degrees  above  the  ocean  temperature  of  the  same  latitude ; 
and  the  fish  there  are  mostly  indifferent.     On  the  other 
hand,  the  Atlantic  cities  and  towns  of  America  owe  their 
excellent  fish-markets  to  the  stream  of  cold  water  £rom 
the  north  which  runs  along  the  coast     Maury  even  tells 
us  that  the  fish  of  the  sea  afibrd  perhaps  the  best  indica- 
tion as  to  the  cold  currents  in  it    The  temperature  along 
the  American  coast  is  several  degrees  below  that  of  the 
ocean;  and  from  Maine  to  Florida  tables  are  supplied 
with  the  most  excellent  offish.     The  ^^  sheep's  head"  of 
thid  cold  current,  so  much  esteemed  in  Virginia  and  the 
Garolinas,  loses  its  flavour,  and  is  considered  worthless, 
when  taken  on  the  warm  coral-banks  of  the  Bahamas. 
The  same  is  the  case  with  other  fish.     In  the  cold  water 
of  that  coast  they  ar^  delicious ;  in  the  warm  water  on 
the  other  edge  of  the  Gulf  Stream,  their  flesh  is  soft  and 
unfit  for  table. 

Msh  Soup^  from  yesterday* 9  f^emain^— economical  and 
good.  It  is  not  necessary  that  the  fish  should  be  all  of 
the  same  kind,  not  even  all  boiled  or  all  fried ;  on  the 
contrary,  in  this  case,  as  in  so  many  others,  variety  is 


182  BBOTHS  AND  BOUPS. 

charming.     Whatever  it  be,  separate  it  into  flakes,  or 
cut  it  up  into  neat  mouthfuls,  and  put  it  aside. 

Pick  a  pint  or  more  of  fresh-boiled  shrimps ;  boil 
their  shells  in  water  twenty  minutes.  Strain  the  liquor 
&om  the  shells ;  let  it  stand  to  settle  while  you  are  doing 
what  follows ;  then  pour  it  off,  leaving  only  the  sediment, 
which  you  reject 

Brown  slices  of  carrot  and  onion  in  butter,  in  a  stew- 
pan,  with  a  dust  of  flour.  When  tender,  dilute  gradually 
with  water  or  broth,  adding  the  clear  liquor  from  the 
shrimp-shells.  Season  with  a  dust  of  sugar,  a  bunch  of 
herbs,  half  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  a  sprinkle  of  grated 
nutmeg,  or  a  couple  of  cloves.  Thicken  with  a  little 
arrowroot;  boil  up,  stirring  all  the  while;  and  pass 
through  a  cullender. 

Kyou  have  any  oyster,  shrimp,  lobster,  caper,  or 
anchovy  sauce  remaining  (if  ever  so  little),  you  may  add 
it  to  the  soup,  for  the  sake  of  its  flavour.  Throw  in  the 
picked  shrimps  and  the  pieces  of  fish,  let  them  heat  well 
through,  and  serve  accompanied  by  toast-dice. 

If  the  quantity  offish  is  scanty,  it  may  be  helped  out 
by  a  dozen  or  two  of  oysters  added,  together  with  the 
liquor  from  them,  at  the  same  time  with  the  shrimps. 
The  oysters  must  not  boil,  but  only  be  heated  through. 

SouiUabaiase — Marseillaise  or  Provenfal  Fish  Soupy  A, 
The  more  different  kinds  of  fish  are  employed,  the  better 
is  the  Bouillabaisse.  Amongst  the  most  esteemed  for 
the  purpose  are  the  sole,  the  whiting,  the  carp,  and  the 
Mediterranean  fish  caUed  the  loupy  or  wolf. 

For  a  Bouillabaisse  for  six  persons,  take  five  pounds  of 


\ 


BBOTHS  AKD  SOUPS.  183 

fish,  two  dozen  mnssels,  the  peel  of  half  an  orange,  an 
onion  cut  in  quarters,  a  bay-leaf,  garlio,  parsley,  cloves, 
a  little  saffron,  pepper  and  salt,  and  half  a  glass  orwhite 
wine  per  head. 

Clean  the  fish  thoroughly,  and  out  it  in  pieoes ;  put 
it,  with  all  the  above  ingredients,  into  a  stew-pan  ;  add 
sufficient  water  and  olive-oil  to  cover  the  whole,  and  stew 
it  over  a  brisk  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  tweniy 
minutes.  Toast  or  firy  slices  of  bread,  pour  your  bouilla- 
baisse over  them,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

This  extremely  popular  Mediterranean  dish  is  rather 
a  fish  stew  than  a  fish  soup ;  the  like  remark,  however, 
is  applicable  to  our  ragofit  soups,  turtle,  ox-tail,  giblet,  &o. 

The  word  bouUlabaisse  means,  ^^  boil  up,  and  take  off* 
the  fire,"  showing  the  quick  way  in  which  it  ought  to  be 
cooked.  Oily  fish — ^as  herring  in  the  north,  and  sardines 
in  the  south — ^are  not  admissible.  If  mackarel,  haddock, 
or  other  solid  fish  are  used,  it  must  boil  for  a  few  minutes 
longer.  The  southern  rule  is  to  be  liberal  both  with 
saffron  and  with  oil. 

We  have  already  given  the  diverse  substances  which 
serve  as  the  basis  of  a  bouillabaisse :  onion,  garlic, 
parsley,  spice,  pepper,  orange-peel,  saffron,  and  oil; 
these  are  indispensable.  It  is  needless  to  add,  that  they 
must  be  proportioned  to  the  quantity  of  fish  and  the 
number  of  guests.  To  these  fundamental  and  obligatory 
ingredients,  some  persons  add  a  sage-leaf;  others,  a  sprig 
of  fennel.  It  is  not  denied  that  such  trifling  accessories 
can  but  slightly  modify  the  flavour  of  the  dish ;  they 
depend  on  the  taste  of  individuals.     In  the  interest  of 


184  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

our  own  gastronomic  reputation^  we  advise  the  rejection 
of  the  fennel  and  the  sage. 

For  what  to  some  palates  is  an  imperceptible  di£fer- 
ence,  makes  a  very  perceptible  difference  to  others.  The 
sensation  of  Taste  resides  principallj  in  the  papillae  of  the 
tongue.  Anatomy  teaches  us  that  all  tongues  are  not 
equally  furnished  with  these  papillae,  some  having  three 
times  as  many  as  others.  This  circumstance  explains 
why,  of  two  guests  at  a  dinner-party,  one  will  enjoy  his 
repast  with  delight,  while  another  will  appear  to  force 
himself  to  eat.  The  reason  is,  that  the  latter's  tongue  is 
imperfectly  organised.  The  Sense  of  Taste,  like  that  of 
Hearing,  has  also  its  deaf-dumb  individuals. 

BouiUabaiasej  B.  If  the  fish-market  supplies  you 
with  only  a  limited  variety ;  if  you  can  get  little  else 
besides  mackarel,  or  oily  fish, — such  as  herring,  pilchard^ 
or  sprats, — ^proceed  as  follows : 

At  the  bottom  of  your  stew-pan  put  a  few  leeks  (the 
white  part  only),  cut  across  in  very  thin  slices ;  add  oil, 
and  your  fish  cut  in  slices ;  fry  a  few  minutes,  until  it 
begins  to  brown.  Add  the  ingredients  mentioned  in  the 
preceding  receipt,  with  a  glass  of  water  for  each  person, 
and  boil  up  rapidly  over  a  blazing  fire  for  a  good  quarter 
of  an  hour  or  so. 

BouiUabaisae  h  VAnglaisej  C — Engliah  Bouillabaisse. 
[From  Lady  B^rriett  St.  Clair's  Dainty  Dishes.']  As 
the  preceding  (a  Marseilles  Receipt  for  Bouillabaisse) 
is  often  considered  too  strong  for  the  English  palate, 
this  is  in  a  milder  form.  It  is  excellent,  and  exceed- 
ingly nourishing  and  wholesome  for  an  invalid. 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS«  185 

Take  cod,  mullet,  whiting,  torbot,  or  any  other  fish 
Tou  like ;  cut  them  cross-ways,  in  pieces  of  from  tif^^o 
ounces  to  a  quarter  of  a  pound  each.  Slice  two  good- 
sized  onions,  place  them  in  a  stew-pan  large  enough  to 
contain  all  the  fish  at  the  bottom — a  shallow  pan  is  best 
Add  two  table-spoonfiils  of  olive-oil ;  fry  the  onions  a 
light  brown ;  put  in  the  fish  with  as  much  warm  water 
as  will  cover  them  well,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a 
one  of  pepper,  half  a  bay-leaf,  the  flesh  of  half  a  peeled 
lemon  cut  in  dice,  two  tomatoes  cut  in  slices  and  their 
seeds  removed  [when  no  ripe  tomatoes  are  to  be  had, 
bottled  tomato  sauce  will  do],  two  small  glasses  of  sherr}' 
or  other  white  wine,  a  few  peppercorns,  and  half  a 
clove  of  garlic. 

Set  on  a  fierce  fire,  and  boil  very  fast  for  twelve 
minutes,  or  till  the  liquor  is  reduced  to  one-third.  Then 
add  a  table-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley ;  let  it  boil  one 
minute  longer,  and  pour  it  into  a  deep  dish  over  slices 
of  bread,  the  same  as  in  the  other  receipt. 

This  is  also  very  good  made  with  all  sorts  of  fresh- 
water fish,  and  the  garlic  may  be  entirely  omitted. 

N.B.  From  this  mild  receipt — especially  so  with  the 
garlic  lefl  out — ^two  other  characteristic  ingredients  are 
also  omitted — ^the  saffron  and  the  orange-peel.  It  is  the 
play  of  Hamlet  without  a  Prince  of  Denmark.  But  so 
far  from  this  being  a  &ult,  as  far  as  invalid  eaters  are 
concerned,  weak  stomachs  may  honour  the  use  of  saffron 
and  garlic  more  in  the  breach  than  in  the  observance. 
The  native  genius  of  a  cook  is  shown  by  her  skill  in 
toning  down  dishes  which  are  too  high-coloured  for  her 


186  BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

own  special  public,  and  in  adapting  foreign  originals  to 
English  acceptance.  She  is  the  translator  who  offers  to 
our  perusal  a  volume  that  would  otherwise  be  hierogly- 
phic; she  is  the  engraver  who  popularises  a  picture 
hanging  unseen  in  some  distant  gallery.  Nevertheless, 
the  Doctor  would  not  discourage  the  trial  of  unaccus- 
tomed stimulants  and  stomachics  oncey  and  in  moderation. 
If  the  dose  do  good,  it  can  be  repeated ;  if  not,  it  must 
be  abstained  from. 

For  persons  in  health,  the  Cook  is  strongly  urged 
never  to  be  frightened  by  the  mere  ingredients  and 
directions  of  a  receipt  that  is  new  to  her,  but  to  experi- 
mentalise on  a  small  scale  once  or  twice,  and  not  be  put 
down  by  a  first  failure  at  the  outset.  For  instance,  in 
these  Proven9al  dishes  much  depends  on  the  quality  of 
the  oil ;  and  as  to  saffiron  and  orange-peel,  it  requires  so 
little  of  either  to  give  a  decided  local  colouring,  that  she 
has  great  liberty  in  the  exercise  of  her  own  discretion. 

Moreover,  strange  dishes  afford  subject  for  conver- 
sation, which  need  not  by  any  means  be  either  futile  or 
epicurean  merely.  Thus,  our  Bouillabaisse  would  lead 
to  a  discussion  of  the  peculiarities  both  of  the  Proven9al 
climate  and  of  the  waters  of  the  Mediterranean  Sea ;  of 
their  effects  on  delicate  constitutions;  what  fish,  only 
rare  accidents  here,  are  common  there,  and  what  others, 
common  here,  are  never  caught  in  the  Mediterranean  l 
to  anecdotes  of  the  olive-tree  and  olive-oil,  of  their 
geographical  limits,  preparation,  and  use ;  of  the  medical 
properties  of  safiron  and  garlic,  why  they  are  worshiped 
by  some  people  and  ignored  by  others,  sought  after  in 


BB0TH8  AND  SOUPS.  187 

one  age  and  neglected  in  Uie  next;  whether  Crocus 
satwus  is  grown  in  England,  elsewhere  than  in  the 
Gazetteer,  at  Safiron  Walden.  The  questions  relating 
to  onr  daily  food  mount  even  to  philosophic  interest 
What  is  the  native  country  of  wheat?  Had  it  ever  a 
native  country  ?  Or  is  it,  as  some  assert,  only  an  im- 
proved species  of  the  grand  femily  of  Grasses? 

According  to  the  Doctor's  ideas,  the  practical  value 
of  Cookery-Books  consists  not  so  much  in  the  instruction 
they  afford  to  persons  totally  ignorant  of  the  art,  as  in 
their  suggestiveness  to  heads  of  households  who  do  know 
something  about  it.  A  lady  is  puzzled  how  to  vary, 
agreeably  and  economically,  her  day's  bill  of  iare. 
She  consults  her  Books — and  there  are  many  good  ones 
— and,  without  slavishly  following  their  indications, 
adapts  them  to  her  own  tastes  and  circumstances.  A 
clever  housekeeper,  with  only  half  a  hint,  will  improvise 
pleasing  culinary  novelties — ^novelties,  that  is,  to  the 
habitual  diners  at  her  own  family  table ;  whereas,  with- 
out the  hint,  she  might  have  gone  plodding  on  in  a 
wearisome  routine  of  roast,  boiled,  and  cold. 

Mock  Moch^  Turtle  (Meager).  Use  for  stock  Meager 
Broth  (p.  174) ;  thicken  and  flavour  exactly  as  with  Mock- 
Turtle  (p.  147),  or,  if  preferred,  thicken  either  with  egg- 
yolks  or  with  arrowroot.  In  the  latter  case,  it  can  be 
made  a  white  soup,  especially  with  the  addition  of  cream. 
For  strict  abstinence,  the  forcemeat  balls  must  be  made 
without  suet,  substituting  a  little  butter  or  grated  cheese ; 
the  egg-balls  need  not  be  altered  in  any  respect.  Listead 
of  calf 's-head  dice,  throw  in,  as  meat,  a  sufficiency  of 


188  BROTHS  AKD  SOUPS. 

ood's  tongues  and  sounds  (see  next  Chap.),  previously 
steeped  and  boiled,  and  cut  up  into  suitable-sized  pieces. 
When  nicely  prepared,  this  soup  is  a  success.  It  may 
be  made  still  more  relishing  by  ibe  addition  either  of  a 
little  Norwegian  fish-flour,  or  of  the  powdered  lobster 
or  mussels  prepared  in  that  country. 

Potage  a  la  Provenfole — Provence  Soup  (Meager). 
Boil  six  or  eight  cloves  of  garlic  and  a  small  bunch  of 
summer  savoury  in  a  stew-pan  of  water  with  a  pinch  of 
salt,  or  in  the  clear  liquor  in  which  any  delicate  fresh  fish 
(as  cod,  whiting,  soles,  or  mackarel)  has  been  boiled. 

Put  very  thin  slices  of  bread  at  the  bottom  of  a  soup- 
tureen,  dust  them  with  a  little  ground  white  pepper, 
sprinkle  them  with  olive-oil  in  proportion  to  the  quantity 
of  bread,  pour  over  all  the  broth,  without  the  garlic  and 
the  savoury,  and  serve  immediately. 

This  pottage  is  very  popular  in  the  south  of  France, 
and  is  given  as  a  remedy  for  small  complaints. 

Potage  h  la  Monaco — Monaco  Soup  (Meager).  Cut 
small  slices  of  bread  into  some  given  similar  shape-— 
round,  square,  triangular,  or  fancifuL  Dust  them  with 
sugar  on  both  sides ;  toast  them  to  a  nice  light  brown, 
and  arrange  them  in  a  soup-tureen  with  a  Utile  salt ; 
pour  over  them  boiling  unskimmed  milk,  and  thicken 
with  yolks  of  egg. 

Potage  h  la  Bisque  (TEcremsses — Bisk;  Fresh-waier 
Crawfish  Soup.  This  is  one  of  the  fish  soups  which  is 
a  great  deal  thought  of,  and  may  be  made  to  cost  a  deal 
of  money.  Ude,  who  never  stinted  for  expense,  says 
that  it  ^^  is  sent  to  table  on  gala-days  only,  when  you 


BROTHS  AlTD  SOUPS.  189 

a 

are  obliged  to  make  a  fireqnent  change  of  soaps.  ^'     The 
following  receipt  is  one  of  the  most  economical 

Crawfish,  being  partially  and  locally  distributed  in 
streams,  have  often  to  be  procm^  from  considerable 
distances.  They  are  in  great  request  with  foreign  cooks, 
— ^more,  however,  to  flatter  the  ear  and  please  the  eye  than 
to  gratify  the  palate.  Miniature  lobsters,  of  as  bright 
a  red,  they  are  invaluable  for  garnishing.  They  are 
made  to  accompany  almost  every  thing  which  is  not 
sweet,  even  a  dish  so  incongruous  to  their  nature  as 
Mock-Turtle  in  Hash — Tite  de  Veau  a  la  ToHue — of 
which  they  are  an  indispensable  ornament.  Their  flesh, 
although  extremely  delicate,  is  quite  inferior  in  firmness 
and  sapidiiy  to  that  of  the  prawn,  the  lobster,  or  the 
shrimp ;  and  a  Mock  Bisque  made  with  either  of  those 
crustaceans  is  quite  as  good  as  a  real  Crawfish  Bisque  : 
the  latter,  indeed,  often  condescends  to  borrow  assistance 
of  the  lobster. 

Take  fifty  live  crawfish ;  boil  them  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  water  seasoned  with  salt,  coarse  ground  or  whole 
pepper,  parsley,  and  onion.  Let  them  cook  twenty 
minutes  aft;er  boiling  up,  stirring  now  and  then  to  have 
them  all  done  alike.  Drain  them,  and  let  them  cool. 
If  wished  to  be  highly  flavoured  of  the  liquor  or  court" 
bouiUony  they  may  be  left  to  cool  in  it. 

When  cool,  pick  out  the  flesh  of  the  tails,  half  open 
them,  to  take  out  the  black  thread  or  intestine  which 
runs  through  their  whole  length.  Pick  also  the  flesh  of 
such  claws  as  are  big  enough  to  be  worth  the  trouble. 
Set  all  these  aside  together. 


190  BROTHS  jlsd  sours. 

Pound  all  the  rest^  shells  and  heads,  very  small  in  a 
marble  mortar,  reducing  them  to  a  paste  with  a  lump  of 
butter.  Put  this  paste  into  a  stew-pan  with  sufficient 
water,  and  boil  till  all  the  goodness  is  extracted ;  then 
strain  and  squeeze  it  through  a  fine-holed  cullender. 
Add  the  requisite  quantity  of  veal  stock,  or  fish  or  meager 
broth,  and  boil  up  again.  Arrange  at  the  bottom  of  the 
soup-tureen  fried  bread-dice  and  the  flesh  of  the  crawfish ; 
pour  the  soup  over  it,  and  serve. 

Bisques  of  Crawfish  are  enriched  both  by  employing 
a  greater  number  of  fish,  and  by  the  addition  of  cream, 
pounded  lobster-spawn,  or,  better,  coral,  pounded  hard 
yolks  of  egg,  or  the  pounded  flesh  of  boiled  soles,  all  or 
either  at  the  cook's  discretion. 

The  consideration  which  is  still  attached  to  crawfish 
probably  originated  in  their  being  the  only  crustaceans 
attainable  in  inland  districts,  whose  remoteness  from  the 
sea  deprived  them  of  other  shell-fish,  with  which  they 
are  now  supplied  abundantly  by  raiL  It  is  likely  that 
fresh-water  crawfish,  without  being  altogether  discarded 
or  despised  for  the  future,  may  nevertheless  have  seen 
their  most  glorious  days. 

Ot/ster  Soup,  The  number  of  oysters  to  be  used  will 
depend  upon  their  size.  Eight  or  ten  natives,  or  half 
a  dozen  large  Channel  oysters  to  each  guest,  is  a  fiur 
allowance.  When  the  oysters  are  opened,  save  all  their 
liquor,  and  at  the  same  time  have  their  beards  removed, 
putting  the  oysters  into  one  bowl  and  the  beards  in 
another.  Set  the  beards  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  well 
covered  with  cold  water ;  boil  them  tiU  all  their  goodness 


BBOTHS  AND  SOXTPS.  191 

is  extracted;  then  squeeze  all  the  liquor  out  of  them 
through  a  cullender  into  the  oyster  liquor  that  had  been 
saved* 

Make  a  white  roux  with  butter  and  flour ;  bring  it 
graduaUj  to  the  thickness  required  with  half  milk  and 
half  clear  veal  stock;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg ;  stir  in  the  liquor  firom  the  oysters  and 
the  beards ;  strain  through  a  cullender,  to  get  rid  of 
knots,  bits  of  shell,  &c. 

Betum  this  soup  to  the  stew-pan,  put  in  the  oysters, 
and  set  it  on  the  fire,  stirring  gently  but  continuously. 
Before  it  boils,  take  it  off  and  pour  it  into  the  soup- 
tureen,  which  may  have  a  few  fried  or  toasted  bread- 
dice  at  the  bottom.  If  the  oysters  are  boiled  for  any 
length  of  time,  they  become  leathery  and  indigestible ; 
heated  nearly  to  the  boiling  point,  they  retain  all  their 
tenderness,  at  the  same  time  that  their  flavour  is  height- 
ened by  the  cooking.  This  point  is  the  great  nicety  to 
observe  both  in  oyster  sauce  and  oyster  soup.  In  neither 
should  the  oysters  taste  raw  or  feel  cold  in  the  mouth ; 
while  most  people  know  the  unpleasantness  of  oysters 
vulcanised  till  they  would  serve  to  mend  a  hole  in  a 
shoe. 

The  above  receipt  gives  Oyster  Soupj  White,  It  may 
be  easily  varied  thus :  omit  the  nutmeg  from  the  season- 
ing, and  use  a  little  cayenne,  a  dessert  or  table-spoonfril 
of  essence  of  anchovies,  a  snudl  pinch  of  horse-radish, 
and  some  lobster  coral  (if  you  have  it)  pounded  fine  in 
a  mortar.  A  table-spoonfrd  of  fine-chopped  parsley  or 
chervil  also  makes  a  pretty  addition ;  this  must  be  thrown 


192  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

into  the  boUing  soup^  after  it  has  passed  through  the 
cullender,  and  before  the  cooking  of  the  oysters. 

Either  form  of  oyster  soup  is  an  agreeable  change 
from  the  ordinary  routine  of  bills  of  fare.  The  first 
should  be  kept  mild  and  delicate  for  fastidious  stomachs ; 
the  second  (which  may  be  ftirther  enriched  by  cream 
and  egg-yolks)  may  be  seasoned  up  to  the  standard  of 
dining-out  palates.  N.B.  In  many  sea-side  localities, 
similar  soups  (which  are  held  in  great  esteem)  are  made 
with  mussels,  cockles,  or  a  combination  of  all  these  three 
shell-fisL  In  America,  Clam  Soups,  made  in  various 
ways,  are  equally  popular.  Of  the  Razor-fish,  or  Solen 
(found  on  the  Norfolk  coast,  in  the  neighbourhood  of 
Stifi^key,  and  elsewhere),  Soyer  says  :  "  This  is  a  beau- 
tiful-eating fish.  It  is  seldom  we  get  it  in  London, 
being  used  by  the  fishermen  for  bait.  It  should  be 
cooked  like  oysters,  and  makes  most  excellent  and 
strengthening  soup.'' 

Salmon  Soup.  Take  a  pound  and  a  half  of  the  middle 
or  tail  of  a  very  fresh  salmon.  Salmon  just  a  little  stale, 
which,  with  management,  is  perfecfly  presentable  as  a 
dish  offiahj  will  not  make  a  tureen  of  soup. 

Cut  the  piece  of  salmon  across  into  two  equal  por- 
tions ;  clean  and  scale  them  most  carefully,  and  then 
throw  them  into  a  pot  of  boHmg  water  with  no  salt  in  it ; 
boil  till  enough — ^about  twenty  minutes.  Remove  the 
skin,  and  take  the  flesh  off  the  bones  while  hot  Divide 
one  of  the  pieces  into  handsome  flakes  or  spoon-bits,  and 
set  them  aside.  Pound  the  other  portion  fine  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  little  butter,  an  anchovy  scaled  and  boned, 


BBOTHS  AND  SOUPS.  193 

or  its  equivalent  in  the  shape  of  essence  of  anchovy,  the 
coral  or  spawn  of  a  lobster  if  to  be  had,  a  table-spoonful 
of  flour  or  arrowroot,  and  a  couple  of  hard  egg-yolks. 

When  these  ingredients  are  well  pounded  and  braided, 
transfer  them  to  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  clear  stock, 
consomm^,  or  veal  or  chicken  broth.  Stir  and  add 
gradually  more  and  more  stock,  till  the  soup  is  of  the 
required  thickness.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt;  if 
intended  for  a  party  of  good  livers,  it  may  be  heightened 
with  a  bouquet  of  herbs  and  an  imperceptible  quantity 
of  cayenne,  sugar,  and  lemon-juice.  Pass  through  a 
large-holed  cullender ;  put  in  the  flakes  of  salmon  that 
had  been  set  aside,  boU  up,  and  serve.  This  being  a 
substantial  ^^  mouthful  soup,"  forcemeat  balls  or  egg 
balls  are  quite  admissible.  Bread  is  also  to  be  eaten 
with  it,  either  in  browned  dice,  or  broken  by  each  person 
firom  the  roll  beside  him. 

It  is  obvious  that  similar  excellent  soups  may  be 
made,  by  the  same  mode  of  preparation,  from  all  our 
larger  and  firmer-fleshed  fish,  as  cod,  turbot,  pike,  conger 
eel,  &c.  Aberdeenshire  skate  soup  is  highly  extolled  and 
relished  in  its  native  locality ;  but  it  is  feared  that  the 
flavour  of  that  fish,  in  soup,  might  prove  too  strong  for 
southern  palates. 

Eel  Soup  is  better  prepared  the  day  before  wanted, 
for  the  sake  of  more  completely  removing  the  fat,  which 
is  apt  to  disagree  with  delicate  stomachs. 

Skin  the  eels ;  cut  them  into  lengths  of  about  two 
inches,  and  let  them  cleanse  two  or  three  hours  in  stronor 
salt  and  water. 


194  BROTHS  AND  SOUPS. 

Throw  them  into  boiling  water,  with  no  salt,  but  with 
pepper,  allspice,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  bmich  of  parsley. 
When  done,  take  out,  and  set  aside.  Beduce  the  liquor 
hj  boiling  to  the  quantity  required;  strain,  cool,  and 
take  off  the  fat. 

Make  a  roux  with  butter,  flour,  and  chopped  onion ; 
moisten  with  the  liquor  from  the  eels.  Strain,  season 
with  cayenne  and  lemon-juice ;  throw  in  the  eels,  boil 
up,  and  serve. 

This,  being  a  ^'  mouthful  soup,''  may  be  garnished 
with  the  proper  accompaniments;  or  the  eels  may  be 
half  boiled  and  half  fried,  which  will  make  it  still  more 
of  a  rago{lt» 


FISH.  195 


VIII. 

FISH. 

MiOHELET,  in  his  remarkable  chapter  on  Renaissance  or 
Benewal  of  the  Bodily  Powers  through  the  agency  of 
the  Sea,  on  sending  his  lady  patient  to  the  coast,  makes 
her  asky  ^^  But  what  do  people  live  on  there  ?'* 

"  Principally  on  fish,  Madame." 

"  And  what  else  ?" 

«  On  fish,  Madame." 

Brillat  Savarin's  speculations  on  fish  are  too  remark- 
able to  be  omitted  here,  especially  when  we  remember 
that  they  were  written  half  a  century  ago. 

Certain  learned  men,  he  says,  whose  ortliodoxy  is  not 
without  suspicion,  have  maintained  that  Ocean  was  the 
common  cradle  of  every  existing  living  creature ;  that 
the  human  race  itself  was  bom  in  the  sea,  and  that  it 
owes  its  actual  condition  simply  to  the  influence  and  the 
habits  which  it  was  obliged  to  assume  in  consequence  of 
its  change  of  dwelling-place. 

However  that  may  be,  at  least  it  is  certain  that  the 
realm  of  waters  contains  an  immense  multitude  of  beings, 
of  every  form  and  of  all  dimensions,  who  enjoy  the  gift 
of  vitality  in  very  different  proportions,  and  according  to 
a  mode  which  is  not  that  of  warm-blooded  animals. 
Equally  true  is  it,  that  it  presents  us,  all  the  world  over 
and  at  every  season,  with  an  enormous  mass  of  alimen- 


196  nsH. 

tary  snbstanoes,  and  tihat^  even  in  the  present  state  of 
our  knowledge,  it  supplies  our  tables  with  most  agree- 
able varieiy. 

Fishy  less  nutritious  than  flesh,  more  succulent  than 
vegetables,  is  a  mezzo  terminer  a  happy  mean,  which  suits 
almost  every  temperament,  and  which  may  be  allowed 
fiven  to  convalescents. 

The  Greeks  and  the  Romans,  although  &r  behind- 
hand, with  respect  to  ourselves,  in  the  art  of  dressing 
fish,  nevertheless  held  it  in  very  high  esteem,  and  were 
epicures  enough  to  be  able  to  pronounce  from  its  flavour 
in  what  waters  such  or  such  fish  had  been  caught  They 
kept  it  in  fish-ponds ;  and  we  have  all  heard  of  the  cruelty 
of  Yadius  Pollio,  who  fed  his  murenae  on  the  flesh  of 
daves  whom  he  had  put  to  death — a  crime  which  the 
Emperor  Domitian  strongly  blamed,  but  which  he  ought 
rather  to  have  publicly  punished. 

Certain  peoples,  in  consequence  of  their  position,  are 
compelled  to  live  almost  entirely  on  fish ;  they  likewise 
give  it  as  food  to  their  domestic  animals,  who  accustom 
themselves,  through  necessity,  to  this  strange  diet  They 
even  manure  their  land  with  it  Nevertheless,  the  neigh- 
bouring seas  do  not  cease  to  furnish  them  with  an  equally 
abundant  supply. 

It  has  been  remarked  that  these  people  have  less 
corporeal  strength  and  energy  than  those  who  mainly 
live  on  flesh.  Their  complexions  are  pale ;  which  is  not 
surprising,  seeing  that,  from  the  elements  of  which  fish 
is  composed,  it  ought  rather  to  augment  their  lymph 
than  renovate  their  blood. 


nsH.  197 

It  has  alsoboCT  obserredthat  lohthjophagous  nations 
have  furnished  nmnerons  examples  of  longevity ;  either 
because  their  light  and  unsubstantial  diet  preserves  them 
from  the  evil  effects  of  plethora,  or  because  the  juices 
contained  in  it  being  destined  by  Nature  to  form  only 
fish-bone*  and  cartilage,  which  nerer  have  a  long  exist- 
ence,f  their  habitual  use  retards,  by  several  years,  in 
Man,  the  solidification  of  all  the  bodily  organs,  which 
finally  becomes  the  necessaiy  cause  of  natural  death. 

Serious  discussions  have  arisen  on  the  question.  Which 
is  the  best,  which  takes  precedence  in  respect  to  merit, 
sea-fish  or  river-fish  ?  The  quarrel  will  probably  never 
be  settled,' in  conformity  with  the  Spanish  proverb,  Sdbrg 
hs  gustos^  no  hai  disputa^  which  has  its  equivalent  both 
in  Latin  and  English.  It  is  wiser  to  tolerate  other 
people's  tastes  than  to  squabble  about  them.  Every  one 
is  affected  by  them  in  his  own  pecuUar  way.  These 
fugitive  sensations  cannot  be  expressed  by  any  known 
symbol  or  character,  and  there  is  no  scale  offish-flavours 
or  ichthyometer  to  tell  us  whether  a  cod,  a  turbot,  or  a 
sole  is  superior  to  a  salmon  trout,  a  full-grown  pike,t  or 
even  a  tench  of  seven  or  eight  pounds. 

*  The  French  hare  a  special  word,  ariU^  to  signify  fish-bone,  in 
contradistinction  to  os,  the  bones  of  animals  and  men. 

f  On  the  contrary,  many  fish,  as  the  carp,  the  pike,  and  others,  are 
remarkable  for  their  longevity  nnder  favourable  circumstances ;  and 
the  cartilaginous  fishes  are  supposed  to  have  no  definite  term  of  exist- 
ence, but  to  live  on  and  on  until  cut  off  by  accident.  Their  invariable 
fate  is  not  a  natural  but  a  violent  death.  In  the  Indian  Ocean  there 
are  said  to  be  members  of  the  skate  or  ray  family  big  enough  to  devour 
a  man. 

X  With  all  due  deference,  and  in  spite  of  the  proverb,  "  Old  fish, 
young  flesh,"  the  biggest  pike  are  not  the  best ;  and  the  remark  holds 


198  FISH. 

It  is  fully  admitted  that  fish  is  much  less  nutritious 
than  meat ;  either  because  it  contains  no  osmazome,*  or 
because,  being  specifically  lighter,  it  contains  in  the 
same  volume  a  smaller  quantity  of  matter.  Shell-fish, 
and  oysters  especially,  afford  but  a  small  amount  of 
nutritive  substance ;  which  is  the  reason  why  a  great 
many  can  be  eaten  without  spoiling  the  appetite  for  the 
repast  which  follows  immediately  afterwards. 

It  will  be  remembered  that,  in  former  days,  a  dinner 
of  any  pretensions  usually  commenced  with  oysters ;  and 
that  there  was  always  a  good  proportion  of  the  guests 
who  did  not  stop  till  they  had  swallowed  a  gross — i.  e. 
twelve  dozen,  or  one  hundred  and  forty-four  oysters. 
[Nevertheless,  the  Almanach  des  Gourmandsy  1803,  states 
that,  beyond  five  or  six  dozen — as  a  mere  indispensable 

true  of  several  other  fish.  A  pike  of  six  pounds  is  hetter  than  one  of 
twelve ;  and  one  of  twelve  pounds  is  less  coarse  and  strong  than  one 
between  twenty  and  thirty  pounds*  weight.  Over-sized  turbot,  and 
John  dory  especially,  are  apt  to  be  wanting  in  delicacy;  middle-sized 
fish  of  those  species,  and  even  what  would  be  called  small  ones,  are 
mostly  superior  in  quality  to  their  giant  brethren. 

*  Osmazome  is  that  specially  sapid  constituent  of  meat  which  is 
soluble  in  cold  water,  and  which  differs  from  the  extractive  portion  by 
the  latter's  being  soluble  only  in  boiling  water.  It  is  osmazome  which 
makes  the  merit  of  good  soups,  which  is  browned  on  meat  in  the  fry- 
ing-pan, and  which,  candied  by  heat,  forms  the  crust  of  roast  meat, 
and  from  which  venison  and  game  derive  their  peculiar  flavour. 

Osmazome  is  especially  obtained  from  the  dark  flesh  of  adult  ani- 
mals. It  is  found  in  much  smaller  quantity  in  lamb,  sucking-pig, 
chicken,  and  even  in  the  white  meat  of  the  largest  poultry.  That  is 
the  reason  why  true  connoisseurs  have  always  preferred  the  thigh  of 
fowls;  in  their  case,  instinct  forestalled  science.  It  was  also  the  pre- 
science of  osmazome  which  has  sent  to  the  right-about  numberless 
cooks  caught  stealing  the  first  broth  ;  and  which  suggested  to  Canon 
Chevrier  the  invention  of  soup-kettles  shutting  with  a  lock  and  key.~ 
B.S. 


FISH.  199 

prelnde  to  a  winter  d6je{lner — it  is  proved  by  experience 
that  oyster-eating  most  certainly  ceases  to  be  an  enjoy- 
ment.] I  (B.  S.)  wished  to  ascertain  what  was  tJie 
weight  of  this  little  avant-garde;  and  I  found  that  a 
dozen  oysters  (the  liqnor  included)  weighed /our  ounces  : 
which  gives,  for  the  weight  of  a  gross,  three  pounds. 
Now,  I  feel  sure  that  the  same  persons  (who  dined  not 
a  bit  the  worse  after  their  oysters)  would  have  been 
completely  satiated  had  they  eaten  an  equal  quantity  of 
meat,  even  were  it  chicken  meat.  Meditate  this  anec- 
dote. 

In  1798, 1,  B.  S.,  was  at  Versailles,  in  the  capacity 
of  a  Commissioner  of  the  Directory ;  and  I  was  frequently 
thrown  in  the  way  of  the  Sieur  Laperte,  Clerk  to  the 
Tribunal  of  the  Department  He  was  excessively  fond 
of  oysters,  and  complained  that  he  had  never  eaten  as 
many  as  he  wished,  or,  in  his  own  words,  ^^  had  never 
had  his  fill  of  them." 

I  resolved  to  procure  him  that  satisfaction,  and  in- 
vited him  to  dine  with  me  next  day. 

He  came ;  I  kept  up  with  him  as  far  as  the  third 
dozen,  aft»r  which  I  let  him  go  on  alone.  He  went  on 
80  as  far  as  the  thirty-second  dozen — ^that  is,  for  more 
than  an  hour;  for  the  oyster-opening  dame  was  not 
very  adroit. 

Meanwhile,  I  sat  looking  on  and  doing  nothing — a 
task  which  is  particularly  painful  at  table  ;  so  I  checked 
my  guest  in  the  height  of  his  career  by  saying,  "  My 
very  dear  fellow,  I  see  it  is  not  written  that  you  are  to 
have  yourfiU  of  oysters  to-day.    Let  us  begin  our  dinner." 


200  FISH. 

We  did  begin ;  and  he  dined  with  the  vigour  of  a 
man  who  had  fasted  for  twelve  hours  previously. 

To  whatever  kind  of  fish  the  precedence  is  granted, 
whether  to  salt  water  or  to  fresh,  all  fish,  in  tlie  hands  of 
a  skilful  preparer,  may  be  made  the  source  of  inexhaust- 
ible gustatory  enjoyment.  It  is  served  whole,  divided, 
cut  into  bits ;  cooked  in  water,  wine,  and  oil ;  hot  or 
cold;  and  is  always  received  with  an  equally  hearty 
welcome.  But  it  never  deserves  a  more  distinguished 
reception  than  when  appearing  under  the  form  of  a 
Matelote  (which  see). 

This  rago^Lt,  although  imposed  by  necessity  on  the 
fresh-water  sailors  who  navigate  our  streams,  and  per- 
footed  only  by  the  innkeepers  who  dwell  along  the 
water's  edge,  is  not  the  less  obliged  to  them  for  a  degree 
of  excellence  which  is  unsurpassable.  Philicthysts  never 
behold  it  appear  without  expressing  their  extreme  delight, 
on  account  both  of  its  frank  and  decided  flavour,  of  its 
uniting  in  itself  a  number  of  good  qualities,  and  because 
it  can  be  indulged  in  almost  indefinitely  without  fear  of 
satiety  or  indigestion. 

Analytic  gastronomy  has  sought  to  examine  what 
are  the  effects  of  an  ichthyophagous  diet  on  the  animal 
economy;  and  unanimous  observations  have  demon- 
strated that  it  is  both  highly  restorative  and  stimulant 
The  result  once  known,  two  causes  were  speedily  dis- 
covered, so  immediately  direct  as  to  be  comprehensible 
by  every  understanding;  namely.  First,  the  different 
ways  of  preparing  fish  by  means  of  condiments  which 
are  evidently  of  an  exciting  nature,  such  as  caviare,  red 


FISH.  201 

herring,  pickled  tunny,  salt  cod,  stock  fish,  and  other 
like  preparations;  Secondly,  the  diverse  juices  with 
which  fish  is  saturated,  which  are  eminently  inflamma- 
ble, and  are  oxidised  and  rancidified  by  the  process  of 
digestion.  Further  analysis  has  discovered  a  third  and 
still  more  active  stimulant ;  i.  e.  the  presence  of  phos- 
phorus, which  is  found  ready-made  in  the  milts  and 
other  parts,  and  which  visibly  shows  itself  when  de- 
composition sets  in. 

Fish,  regarded  in  the  entirety  of  its  species,  offers  to 
the  pliilosopher  an  inexhaustible  subject  of  meditation 
and  wonder.  The  varied  forms  of  these  strange  crea- 
tures ;  the  senses  which  are  wanting  to  them ;  the  re- 
stricted scope  of  those  they  have ;  their  diverse  modes 
of  existence ;  the  influence  which  must  have  been  exerted 
on  all  those  particulars  by  the  diflference  of  the  medium 
in  which  they  are  destined  to  live  and  breathe  and  move, 
— extend  the  sphere  of  our  ideas,  and  enlarge  our  notions 
respecting  the  indefinite  modifications  which  may  be  the 
result  of  matter,  motion,  and  life. 

For  my  own  (B.  S.'s)part,  I  regard  them  with  a 
feeling  akin  to  respect,  which  arises  from  a  thorough 
persuasion  that  they  are  undeniably  antediluvian  ani- 
mals ;  for  the  grand  cataclysm  which  drowned  our 
great-great-grandfathers  about  the  eighteenth  century 
after  the  creation  of  the  world  was  for  the  fish  nothing 
but  a  time  of  joy,  victory,  and  festive  frolic* 

*  Sir  Thomas  Browne  amnses  himself  with  discussing  the  same 
idea :  *'  Though  earth  hath  engrossed  the  name,  yet  water  hath  proved 
the  smartest  g^ye  ;  which  in  forty  days  swallowed  almost  mankind 
and  the  living  creation  ;  fishes  not  wholly  escaping,  except  the  salt 


202  FISH. 

So  far  our  distlngaished  epicure,  who  thus  relieves 
lis  from  the  duty  of  further  insisting  on  the  wholesome, 
nay,  restorative  results  of  varying  a  meat  and  vegetable 
diet  with  fish.  The  wonders  worked  by  cod-liver  oil, 
which  are  equally  attainable  by  feeding  on  the  cod  itself 
and  its  liver ;  the  beneficial  effects  of  the  phosphates  in 
oysters,  rendering  them  an  object  of  craving  with  many 
invalids  ;  the  specific  action  of  iodine  on  scrofulous  com- 
plaints ;  and  tlie  source  whence  iodine  is  obtained — the 
sea, — are  instances  in  point 

Likei  almost  every  accessory  of  civilised  socieiy,  the 
distribution  of  fish  has  been  greatly  affected  by  that 
mighty  agent,  the  rail.  There  are  two  things  which 
inevitably  follow  railways  wherever  they  go, — at  least,  in 
Europe, — namely.  Gas  and  Fish.  On  the  Continent, 
especially,  when  you  branch  off  from  the  iron  path  by 
diligence^  you  mostly  exchange  the  light  of  gas  for  the 
darkness  visible  of  oil.  The  same  is  the  case  with 
regard  to  sea-fish.  Throughout  the  Midland  Counties 
of  England,  cod,  skate,  and  soles  were  once  rarities 
which  were  highly  appreciated  when  people  got  them. 
The  supply  now  is  regular,  good,  and  abundant ;  but  the 
great  change  effected  in  England  has  been  rather  a 
question  of  price  than  (as  in  the  central  parts  of  Europe) 
of  fish  or  no  fish.  The  produce  of  our  seas  has  been  dis- 
persed over  a  larger  area,  and  prices  have  been  equalised 
throughout  that  area.  Dwellers  along  the  seaboard  suffer 
most  from  a  scarcity  of  fisL  My  elder  readers  may  re- 
ocean  were  handsomelj  contempered  bj  a  mixture  of  the  fresh  ele- 
ment."— Hjfdrtotaphia,  chap.  i. 


FISH.  203 

member^  like  myself,  the  time  when ,  along  certain  parts  of 
the  coast,  four  fine,  firesh  mackarel  were  occasionally  to  be 
had  for  a  penny.  Those  seasons  of  local  plenty  are  gone, 
never  to  return— until  the  exhaustion  of  our  coal-fields. 
Still,  it  does  seem  hard  for  the  inhabitant  of  a  fishing 
town,  who  wants  a  turbot,  to  be  obliged  to  order  it  back 
from  London.  The  consequence  of  all  which  is,  that  in 
the  second  half  of  the  current  century  inland  people  eat 
enormously  more  fish  than  they  did  in  the  first  half; 
while  dwellers  near  the  coast  still  consume  a  consider- 
able quantity,  though  at  a  higher  cost  than  formerly. 
The  rich  still  get  their  wants  supplied ;  the  poor  (and 
not  imfrequently  the  middle  class)  have  to  put  up  with 
a  scanty  share— which  is  a  pity. 

Although  Gas,  by  following  the  Rail,  may  possibly 
run  short  eventually,  it  is  not  so,  and  never  will  be  so, 
with  sea-fish.  River-fish,  in  thickly  peopled  countries, 
must  be  carefully  guarded,  tended,  and  overseen,  by  fiy- 
herds  and  fish-keepers;  but  the  fecundity  of  Ocean 
knows  no  limits.  We  may  take  and  eat  all  we  can  take, 
without  fear  or  scruple.  We  need  not  abstain  through 
prudential  motives.  It  is  not  Man  who  will  depopulate 
the  seas.  A  full-grown  cod,  or  an  adult  seal,  has  con- 
sumed more  fish  than  the  most  fish-dinner-loving  of  his 
eaters  or  his  flayers.  The  grand  alimentary  problem 
now  before  Western  Europe  is,  how  to  catch,  cure,  and 
distribute  more,  more,  and  still  more  sea-fish.  Our  pre- 
sent business  is  to  cook  it.  We  will  first  dispose  of  fresh- 
water fish,  prefacing  it  by  stating  a  knotty  point,  which 
has  prevented  very  few  English  cooks  from  sleeping. 


204  nsH. 

Of  all  the  nntritive  productions,  says  the  Almanacli 
dee  Grourmandsj  which  a  benevolent  Providence  has  ac- 
corded to  Man's  appetite,  there  is  none  on  which  the 
industiy  of  a  skilful  artist  can  be  more  successftdlj  exer- 
cised than  on  Fish,  which  are  usually  seen  either  boUed 
or  taken  from  the  frying-pan.  But  is  there  no  virtue 
in  a  Court-Bouillon  made  according  to  the  principles  of 
learned  Cookery  ?  Authors  are  divided  on  the  nature 
of  this  sauce,  or  rather  this  cradle  of  every  fish  that  is 
neither  roasted,  broiled,  nor  fried.  Culinary  Dispen- 
saries are  full  of  formulas,  more  or  less  elaborate,  which 
vary  according  to  place  and  climate.  At  Lyons,  for  in- 
stance, it  is  an  established  principle  that  fish,  once  out  of 
water,  should  never  return  to  it  At  Paris,  where  wine 
is  dearer,  the  maxim  is  less  strictly  adhered  to.  There 
are  meaty  Court-Bouillons^  and  there  are  meager  ditto ; 
and  it  may  be  supposed  that  the  first  are  the  savouriest : 
but  as  they  are  forbidden  to  Catholics  on  abstinence- 
days,  a  liquor  must  be  extracted  from  roots  and  herbs 
as  relishing  as  that  from  meats.  And  it  is  in  this  that 
the  studies  of  a  clever  cook  render  him  marvellous 
service,  elevating  him  above  the  crowd  of  plain  boilers 
and  roasters,  who  merit,  at  the  very  most,  the  title  of 
scullion. 

The  Doctor,  in  the  first  place,  must  in  duiy  express 
his  doubts,  first,  whether  fish,  cooked  in  court-bouillon, 
be  as  light  and  digestible  as  fish  plain-boiled.  He  has 
known  instances  of  its  rising  in  the  stomach,  and  even 
of  its  putting  the  stomach  out  of  order.  Secondly,  he 
doubts  whether  it  be  an  improvement  to  overpower  the 


FISH.  205 

natural  taste  of  a  fish  hy  saturating  it  with  foreign 
flavours.  StiUy  as  there  are  such  things  as  muddj,  in* 
sipid,  flabby-fleshed  fish ;  and  also  as  it  was  impossible 
to  ignore  a  preparation  which  takes  high  rank  in  foreign 
art,  he  gives  one  or  two  receipts  (with  their  discrepan- 
cies), and  allows  practitioners  and  their  employers  to 
judge  and  decide  for  themselves. 

Ude^8  Court-BoutUorij  far  Fish  au  BleUy  A.  Take 
three  carrots,  four  onions,  six  shallots,  and  two  roots  of 
parsley,  which  pick  and  wash.  Mince  them.  Put  a 
small  lump  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  above 
roots,  and  fiy  them  till  they  begin  to  get  brown. 
Moisten  next  with  two  bottles  of  red  wine,  a  bottle  of 
water,  a  handful  of  salt,  some  peppercorns,  and  a  bunch 
of  parsley  and  green  onions,  seasoned  with  thyme,  bay- 
leaves,  sweet  basil,  cloves,  <&c.  Let  the  whole  stew  for 
an  hour,  and  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  to  use  as 
occasion  may  require. 

If  you  have  no  wine,  put  in  some  vinegar ;  but  vert/ 
good  court-houUlon  cannot  be  made  with  vinegar.  This 
marinade,  being  stewed  properly,  will  serve  several  times 
for  stewing  fish  :  but  remember,  each  time  you  use  it,  it 
requires  a  little  water.  It  would  become  too  strong  in 
the  course  of  time.  The  court-bouillon  is  better  after 
having  served  several  times  than  on  the  first  day.  It  is 
always  good ;  only  add  a  glass  of  wine  to  it  every  time 
you  use  it  Use  it  for  marinade,  &c  It  is  excellent 
for  stewing  crawfiish.  Any  wine  will  do  for  court- 
bouillon,  even  if  soar. 

Take  some  of  this  liquor  to  make  Matelote  Sauce,  &c. 


206  FISH. 

This  manner  of  boiling  fish  is  too  expensive  in  Eng- 
landy  where  wine  is  so  dear ;  besides,  fish  done  in  court- 
bouillon  is  always  eaten  vnih  oil  and  vinegar^  which  is  not 
customary  in  England.     So  far  Tide. 

Court-Bouillon^  B,  is  the  seasoned  liquor  in  which 
are  cooked  large  fish,  both  sea  and  firesh  water,  whether 
they  are  intended  to  be  eaten  cold  with  oily  or  hot  with  a 
sauce. 

The  court-bouillon  is  made  with  red  or  white  wine 
(ordinaire)  pure,  or  more  or  less  diluted  with  water  ac- 
cording to  its  quality,  with  onions,  slices  of  carrot,  a 
large  bouquet  complete,  cloves,  bay-leaves,  thyme  and 
sweet  basil  according  to  taste,  salt,  and  whole  pepper. 
After  boiling  for  at  least  an  hour,  it  is  strained  through 
a  sieve.  The  best  way  is^  to  make  the  court-bouillon  first^ 
and  not  to  cook  tliefish  in  it  until  it  has  been  straianed. 

Court-bouillon  made  with  red  wine  is  the  veritable 
Bleu  ;  but  a  mixture  of  vinegar  and  water  mxiy  be  substi" 
tilted  for  the  wine*  Veijuice  or  lemon-juice  produces  a 
good  efiect  in  court-bouillon. 

A  court-bouillon  may  be  made  to  serve  several  times. 

Court-Bomllonj  C.  Example :  Carp  au  Bleu.  Empty 
your  carp  through  the  smallest  possible  orifice ;  tie  up  it& 
head  with  a  tape,  to  prevent  its  falling  to  pieces,  and  lay 
it  in  a  fish-kettle  proportioned  to  its  size. 

Heat  in  a  saucepan  half  a  bottle  of  vinegar,  and  pour 
it  boiling  over  your  carp.  Then  add  red  wine,  taking 
care  to  put  enough  for  the  carp  to  bathe  in  it  completely 
at  ease.  Next  put  in  three  large  onions  cut  in  slices,  two 
carrots,  parsley,  scallions  or  green  onions,  two  or  three 


FISH.  207 

baj-Ieaves,  a  small  sprig  of  thymey  three  doves,  pepper 
and  salt 

Set  your  fish-kettle  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  let  it  sim- 
mer for  an  hour  or  thereabouts,  more  or  less,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  carp.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  let  it  cool  in 
the  liquor  in  which  it  was  cooked ;  arrange  it  on  a  dish 
with  a  napkin  in  the  middle,  and  serve. 

These  several  prescriptions,  it  will  be  seen,  agree 
neither  with  each  other,  nor  all  of  them  with  themselves. 
The  truth  is,  that  every  man-cook  of  any  pretensions  has 
his  own  individual  notions  respecting  Court-bouillon ;  the- 
only  intelligible  principle  being  the  combination  of  every 
ingredient  that  can  communicate  high  flavour  to  fish. 
According  to  the  Doctor's  experience.  Court-bouillon 
spoils  good  fish ;  while  inferior  fish — such  as  roach  and 
bream,  and  he  is  heretic  enough  to  include  with  them 
carp — are  not  worth  the  cost  of  making  it 

Before  proceeding  to  the  commoner  ways  of  dressing 
fish,  we  will  first  dispose  of  the  French  mode  which  has 
already  been  mentioned  with  approbation,  namely,  the 
famous 

Matelote  of  Carp^  Tmchy  Eeh^  or  Pike.  A  matelote^ 
from  whom  the  name  of  the  dish,  or  the  sauce,  is  taken^ 
is  a  sailor's  wife,  a  fisherman's  wife,  a  fishwoman. 
Consequently,  the  mode  of  preparation  is  more  appro- 
priate to  fish  than  to  meat,  although  meat  may  bo  so 
treated — of  which  an  example  shall  be  given.  For  the 
same  reason — if  reason  it  be — a  matelote  should  contain 
several  sorts  of  fish,  the  only  restriction  in  their  variety 
being,  that  they  must  all  be  kinds  which  take  the  same 


208  FISH. 

time  to   cook.     Ude  translates  ^^  matelote"'  by  hotch- 
potchy  properly  denoting  that  it  is  a  medley  disL 

For  a  matelote  of  any  or  all  the  above-mentioned 
fish,  after  thorough  cleansing  and  washing,  let  them  lie 
a  few  hours  sprinkled  with  salt  Rinse  them  once  more 
before  cooking.  If  small,  merely  cut  off  the  heads  and 
tails ;  if  larger,  divide  the  carp  and  tench  into  two  or 
three  pieces,  and  the  pike  and  eels  into  convenient  lengths. 

At  the  bottom  of  your  stew-pan,  brown  button  onions 
in  butter.  When  half  done,  add  a  bouquet  of  sweet 
herbs,  put  in  your  fish  with  as  much  good  broth  as  will 
just  suffice  to  cook  it,  and,  the  addition  of  either  red 
wine,  white  wine,  or  good  cider,  and  stew  closely  covered 
until  enough,  taking  care  it  does  not  bum. 

Arrange  yomr  fish  in  a  hot,  hollow  dish.  Let  the 
gravy  from  which  it  was  taken  boil  a  minute  or  two,  to 
reduce  it,  thickening  it  with  a  dust  of  flour  dredged  into 
it  At  the  same  time,  make  what  additions  or  seasoning 
you  think  fit,  such  as  a  handfiil  of  picked  shrimps, 
browning,  essence  of  anchovies,  Harvey's  sauce,  Wor- 
cestershire sauce,  walnut  ketchup.  Pour  this  gravy  over 
the  fish,  and  serve  garnished  with  diin  toasted  bread  cut 
in  triangles. 

The  matelote  is  open  to  considerable  variation,  ac- 
cording to  the  cook's  resources.  Cold  lobster,  shrimp, 
egg,  or  oyster  sauce,  or  simple  melted  butter,  may  be 
used  as  thickening.  The  seasoning  may  be  cayenne  or 
black  pepper  merely,  or  small  pieces  of  hot  pickles.  For 
fish  matelotes  the  gravy  should  always  be  based  on  the 
liquor  in  which  the  fish  has  been  cooked.     Over-day's 


FISH.  209 

julienne  or  other  vegetable  soup  answers  well,  if  watched 
to  prevent  burning. 

Cold  matelote  of  eels  and  tench  is  excellent,  forming 
a  stiff  jelly.  This  requires  a  dash  of  vinegar,  tarragon  or 
plain,  and  a  sufficient  dose  of  pepper. 

Any  particularly  fine  carp  or  tench  may  be  served 
whole  en  matelote^  for  display,  surrounded  with  eels  cut 
in  short  lengths  as  usual,  which  are  a  great  improve* 
ment  They  may  also  be  stewed  in  light  French  op 
Gkrman  wine  only,  unmixed  with  broth  or  soup,  or  in 
good  sound  old  cider.  This  must  be  well  thickened^ 
highly  seasoned,  and  flavoured  with  thyme,  sweet  basil 
or  marjoram,  lemon -juice,  and  lemon -peel.  Before 
pouring  the  gravy  over  the  fish,  add  to  and  heat  up  with  it 
previously  cooked  small  onions  and  mushrooms.  Gramish 
with  forcemeat  balls,  firied  roes,  small  toast  sippets,  craw- 
fish, or  any  thing  tasty  and  ornamental  you  have  at  hand. 

Matelote  of  Rabbit,  Cut  up  a  young  rabbit  into  joints, 
and  a  fine  eel  into  short  pieces.  Put  twelve  small  onions 
into  a  stew-pan,  with  just  enough  butter  to  brown  them ; 
take  them  out,  and  do  the  same  to  the  rabbit  Add  a 
tea-spoonful  of  flour,  mix  and  moisten  with  half  white 
wine  (French  or  German)  and  half  good  broth.  Put  in 
the  eel,  the  onions,  some  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  a  clove  of  garlic  split  in  two,  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg.  Boil  galloping.  When  done,  arrange  the 
rabbit  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  with  tlie  eel  round  it. 
Take  out  the  bouquet  and  the  garlic.  Boil  the  sauce  a 
couple  of  minutes,  pour  it  over  the  rabbit,  and  serve 
gamisbed  with  firied  bread. 

P 


210  FISH. 

Matelote  of  Carp  (or  other  fresh-water  fish)  a  la 
Marinih'e — Mariner's  Matelote.  Scale  and  cut  up  your 
fish  into  lengths ;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  or  veiy  deep 
fiying-pan,  with  a  good  lump  of  butter,  bouquet  com- 
plete, clove  of  garlic,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  tumbler  or  more 
of  red  vin  ordinaire.  Set  them  on  a  brisk  fire,  and  let 
boil  for  five  minutes. 

Throw  in  a  good  glass  of  brandy,  set  fire  to  it,  and  let 
it  bum.  Cook  separately  in  a  saucepan-browning  them 
nicely — a  few  small  onions,  with  which  you  can  warm 
up  a  few  mushrooms. 

-A^y^n^^^go  your  fish,  when  tender,  on  a  dish,  garnishing 
it  first  with  toasted  bread,  then  with  the  onions  and 
mushrooms.  Thicken  the  sauce  with  a  lump  of  butter 
worked  into  the  flour,  boil  up,  and  pour  it  over  your  dish 
of  fish.  The  pieces  of  fish  should  not  be  so  much  done 
as  to  fall  to  pieces  when  touched  with  a  spoon,  but  ought 
to  retain  their  orginal  form  at  the  same  time  that  they 
are  done  enough. 

The  boiling  offish  calls  for  a  word  of  explanation. 
Theory  teaches  us  that,  to  fix  the  albumine  and  retain  it 
in  the  article  cooked,  instead  of  letting  it  partially  dissolve 
in  the  water,  that  article  should  be  plunged  into  hoiling 
water.  But  there  are  circumstances  in  which  the  doing 
so  may  be  counterbalanced  by  still  greater  disadvantages. 
For  instance,  if  a  very  large  fish  be  set  on  to  cook  in 
boiling  water,  the  thin  parts,  as  the  tail  and  the  belly, 
will  be  cooked,  while  the  thick  part  of  the  middle  and 
shoulders  will  be  still  underdone  and  adhere  to  the  bone. 

To  obviate  this  inconvenience,  it  is  clearly  better, 


FISH.  211 

when  a  piece  of  fish  exceeds  a  certain  thickness,  to 
immerse  it  in  a  fish-kettle  of  cold  or  tepid  salt  and 
water.  By  this  means,  the  whole  mass  will  be  graduallj 
heated,  and  when  the  boiling  point  is  attained  outside, 
the  inside  will  have  already  reached  a  temperature  of 
considerable  elevation ;  so  that,  in  the  end,  the  whole 
will  be  more  equally  cooked  throughout,  avoiding  the 
unpleasantness  of  having  part  of  the  fish  falling  to  pieces 
while  other  parts  are  red  and  raw. 

The  case  is  exactly  the  same  as  that  of  frozen  meat, 
which  should  always  be  completely  thawed  throughout 
(t.  €.  should  have  the  general  temperature  of  its  mass 
gradually  raised)  before  being  put  to  cook  either  by 
boiling  of  roasting.  Otherwise — ^in  the  latter  mode 
-especially — the  outer  crust  may  be  burnt  to  a  cinder 
while  the  centre  is  yet  bloody  and  uneatable.  It  has  not 
yet  had  ilie  time  for  its  temperature  to  be  raised  from  the 
freezing  to  the  boiling  point  and  upwards.  If  heat  could 
be  darted  suddenly,  like  a  flash  of  lightning,  through  a 
Joint,  we  might  plunge  the  largest  fish  into  boiling  water 
without  risk  of  its  being  unequally  cooked,  and  conse- 
quently injured ;  but  as  heat  penetrates  quite  gradually 
from  without  a  solid  object  to  within,  we  must  modify 
our  culmary  proceedings  in  obedience  to  the  feet  Small 
or  thin  flat  fish,  therefSe,  as  whiting,  soles,  &c.,  may  be 
plunged  into  boiling  water ;  large  fish,  whole  or  in  pieces 
of  considerable  size,  had  better  be  set  on  in  tepid  water. 
It  is  understood  that  water  for  boiling  all  fish  except 
salt  fish  should  hold  a  certain  proportion  of  salt  in 
solution.  Quin  (fai^ous  as  an  epicure  as  well  as  an  actor), 


212  FISH. 

whenever  he  carried  a  John  dory  inland  from  the  coast, 
had  a  barrel  of  sea-toater  strapped  behind  his  post-diaise 
to  boil  it  (the  dory)  in. 

Wlien  large  fish,  as  cod  or  salmon,  is  crimped,  or 
slashed  after  death  in  imitation  of  crimping,  tlic  fish  may 
be  dropped  into  hot  water,  if  the  distance  between  the 
slashes  is  but  small.  The  same  of  cod,  salmon,  turbot, 
or  halibut  cut  in  slices.  The  cook,  in  every  doubtful 
case,  must  be  guided  by  her  own  discretion  and  ex* 
perience. 

Fish  while  boiling  should  be  skimmed  at  least  as 
carefully  as  meat  When  done  enough,  if  not  wanted 
immediately,  it  must  not  be  left  to  coddle  in  the  water, 
which  would  soften  it  and  soak  the  flavour  out  of  it. 
Lift  it  out  on  the  false  bottom  or  strainer ;  which  set  on 
the  top  of  the  fish-kettle  diagonally  or  cross-wise.  Soak 
a  napkin  in  the  hot  liquor  of  the  kettle,  spread  it  over  the 
fish,  so  as  to  retain  tlie  steam,  and  it  will  keep  hot  for  a 
considerable  time. 

As  to  removing  the  scales  of  fish,  professors  difier. 
Here  is  a  receipt  which  absolutely  forbids  it : 

Pike  au  Bleu  and  in  Court^BouUlon.  Take  a  pike  of 
from  six  to  eight  pounds,  do  not  scale  ity  but  let  it  hang 
for  two  or  three  days,  and  then  cook  it  in  exactly  the 
same  way  as  Carp  au  Bleu.  You  will  also  serve  it  on  a 
white  napkin,  and  eat  it  either  cold,  with  oil  and  vinegar, 
or  hot,  with  caper  sauce. 

Something  must  depend  on  the  kind  of  fish.  The 
scales  left  on  perch  would  be  an  absolute  nuisance,  and 
they  must  necessarily  be  removed  firom  the  siuface  of  a 


FISH.  213 

fish  of  which  tho  skin  is  eaten,  as  the  under  sicTo  of  sole 
or  turbot.  Many  people  eat  the  skin  of  boiled  salmon, 
which  is  both  palatable  and  nutritious ;  but  if  the  scales 
are  left  on  for  the  sake  of  ornament,  it  prevents  their 
doing  so*  Scales  left  on  boiled  fish  can  do  no  good ;  on 
baked  fish,  they  may  perhaps  help  to  retain  the  natural 
juices,  but  they  spoil  the  gravy,  which  might  otherwise 
either  serve  for  sauce  or,  at  least,  help  to  make  it. 
On  the  whole,  we  vote  with  those  who  hold  tliat  in  all 
cases  it  is  a  much  neater  style  of  cookery  to  remove  the 
scales  of  fish. 

In  every  case,  the  gills  should  be  taken  out  as  soon 
as  a  fish  comes  into  your  possession;  but  in  inland 
localities,  where  fish  is  scarce,  it  is  usual  to  serve  it, 
especially  fried,  with  all  its  finny  adornments  unmutilated. 
Middle-sized  pike,  trout,  barbel,  or  carp,  with  their  fins 
on,  fished  out  of  a  lake  of  boiling  fat,  reposing  on  a 
snowy  napkin,  and  bedecked  with  a  garland  of  fresh, 
bright  parsley,  are  a  very  pretty  sight  on  a  dinner-table. 

Tlie  Salmon  is  the  king  of  fresh-water  fish.  In  reality 
he  is  a  Prince  of  the  Sea ;  but  as  he  is  so  obliging  as  to 
ascend  our  streams,  we  class  him,  for  convenience,  with 
their  other  inhabitants.  Tlie  more  recently  a  salmon  has 
left  the  sea,  the  more  highly  he  is  esteemed, — the  mode 
of  testing  which,  although  not  often  to  be  practised  on  the 
fishmonger's  stall,  is  perfectly  well  known  to  fishermen. 
The  salmon,  like  other  nobler  creatures,  is  infested  with 
snndiy  parasites,  some  of  which  are  peculiar  to  salt 
water,  and  others  to  fresh.  When  a  salmon  has  a  '^  sea 
louse"  sticking  to  his  back — an  ugly  thing,  about  as  big 


214  FISH. 

as  a  sheep  tide — ^he  is  sure  to  be  a  fresh-mn  fish,  for  it 
would  drop  off  after  a  few  hours'  sojourn  in  river-water. 
On  the  other  hand,  when  a  salmon,  after  spawning,  and 
through  a  lengthened  stay  in  river-water,  has  become 
what  is  called  "  foul"  (out  of  season,  black-complexioned^ 
big-headed,  thin-bodied),  his  gills  are  infested  by  white 
ihread-like  worms,  which  are  believed  to  be  got  rid  of 
only  by  his  return  to  the  sea. 

Salmon  is  expensive  in  the  earlier  months  of  the  year, 
from  February  (when  the  season  opens)  till  May  or  June, 
because  he  will  keep,  and  can  wait  for  a  purchaser 
without  manifesting  impatience.  He  is  rarely  served 
whole,  except  on  opulent  tables,  on  occasions  of  etiquette 
and  ceremony  suitable  to  his  native  digniiy.  Cooked  to 
a  bubble,  and  tastily  garnished,  he  is  then  a  goodly 
sight,  which  many  people  would  pay  money  to  see,  if 
only  to  bring  the  water  into  their  mouths — just  as,  a 
few  years  since,  in  Paris,  a  million  of  money  (francs) 
exhibited  as  a  show  attracted  crowds  of  beholders  whose 
capital  scarcely  sufficed  to  keep  the  demon  out  of  their 
pockets. 

Boiled  Salmon  is  simple  enough,  and  as  good  as 
simple,  if  eaten  in  moderation.  The  foregoing  directions 
ought  to  suffice.  Tlie  fish  being  scaled  and  cleaned 
(if  diere  is  roe,  it  is  usual  to  leave  it  inside,  without 
opening  the  belly,  but  removing  the  intestines),  it  is  laid 
on  the  false  bottom  of  the  fish-kettle,  and  so  immersed, 
if  in  slices  into  hot,  if  in  a  large  piece  into  cold,  salt-and- 
water.  When  done,  it  must  be  adroitly  slipped  off  the 
fijse  bottom  on  to  tlie  napkin  on  the  dish  which  is  to 


FISH.  215 

receive  it,  and  garnished  with  green  fennel,  parsley^  or 
scraped  horse-radish.  There  should  be  no  poking  it  in 
the  fish-kettle  with  knives  or  forks,  to  ascertain  whether 
it  is  done ;  the  cook  ought  to  know  that  by  the  look  of  it, 
the  time  it  has  been  in,  and  the  rate  at  which  it  has 
boiled.  A  cut  out  of  the  middle  of  a  moderate-sized 
fish  will  take  from  twenty  to  five-and-thirty  minutes; 
the  tail  part  less,  and  slices  still  less. 

Lobster,  anchovy,  or  shrimp  sauce  may  be  served 
with  salmon ;  but  it  really  has  little  need  of  help  ftom 
sauce.  Some  good  plain  melted  butter,  with  which  a  little 
mustard  and  vinegar  can  be  mixed  on  the  plates  of  those 
who  like  it,  is  as  good  and  digestive  an  accompaniment 
as  any. 

Soused  Salmon.  1£  any  is  left  cold,  put  it  in  a  deep 
dish,  dust  pepper  over  it,  and  then  pour  over  all  half 
strong  vinegar  and  half  salmon-boilings,  just  enough  to 
cover  it,  and  it  will  be  excellent  to  eat  cold  for  several 
days.  If  you  have  a  whole  salmon,  more  than  you 
want  to  serve  at  once,  after  selecting  tlie  piece  to  appear 
at  dinner,  cut  the  rest  into  convenient-sized  slices,  and 
boil  the  whole  togetlier  (they  will  all  be  the  better  for  the 
association)  in  as  small  a  quantity  of  salt-and-water  as 
^  U,  tLwbg  in  .  J  peppL™.  lake  „p  *, 
surplus  salmon  the  instant  it  is  done  enough,  and  pack 
it  neatly  in  a  pate-dish  that  has  a  close-fitting  cover. 
When  the  salmon-boilings  are  cold,  and  skimmed  and 
settled,  mix  with  an  equal  quantity  of  vinegar  enough  of 
the  liquor,  and  pour  it  over  the  salmon,  so  as  to  cover 
it  well;  throw  in  the  boiled  peppercorns,  add  a  few  iresh 


216  FISH. 

ones,  and  you  will  have  a  capital  imitation  of  Pickled 
Salmon^  if  not  the  real  tiling. 

Salmon  so  treated  is  not  only  presentable  unadorned 
at  any  meal,  but  also  furnishes  the  material  either  for 
a  Salmon  Scdadj  or  that  more  elegant  and  elaborate  dish, 
a  Mat/omiaise  of  Salmon, 

Don't  eat  sliced  cucumber  with  hot  boiled  salmon ; 
but  there  is  no  harm  in  your  having  a  plate  of  it  handed 
round,  to  be  looked  at  and  to^difluse  its  smell.* 

Salmon  Steaks.  Cut  the  fish  completely  across  in 
slices  about  an  inch  thick.  Dry  them  well  between  the 
folds  of  a  napkin.  If  for  fiying,  they  may  be  dusted 
with  flour,  which  can  be  spread  evenly  over  their  surface 
with  a  feather ;  if  for  grilling,  they  can  be  seasoned  with 
the  slightest  sprinkling  of  pepper  and  salt  In  the  latter 
case,  the  turning  must  be  adroitly  performed  with  steak- 
tongs.  Either  anchovy  or  caper  sauce  goes  well  with 
salmon  steaks,  which  are  admirably  adapted  to  a  t^te-^- 
tSte  repast  or  an  impromptu  dinner  at  a  wayside  hotel 
while  your  horses  are  baiting  and  reposing  a  while.    The 

*  The  mere  presence  of  an  object  of  desire  is  often  a  satisfactory 
consolation. 

The  Canon  BoUet,  gathered  to  his  fathers  long  ago,  was  a  tippler 
of  the  old  school.  He  fell  sick,  and  the  first  word  uttered  by  his 
doctor  was  the  prohibition  to  touch  a  drop  of  wine.  Notwithstanding 
which,  the  next  time  he  called,  he  found  the  patient  in  bed,  opposite 
to  which  stood  in  state  the  thing  forbidden ;  namely,  a  table  covered 
with  a  snow-white  cloth,  a  crystal  goblet,  a  venerable  black  bottle, 
and  a  napkin  ready  to  wipe  the  lips. 

Beholding  which,  the  doctor  went  into  a  rage,  threatening  to  leave 
the  sick  man  to  his  own  devices ;  when  the  Canon  pleaded,  with  a 
lamentable  voice,  "But,  doctor,  when  you  forbade  my  drinking,  you 
did  not  deny  me  the  pleasure  of  looking  at  the  bottle." 


FISH.  217 

Doctor  and  his  womankind  have  a  keen  remembrance 
of  partaking,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  die  Swiss-Italian 
Lakes,  of  dishes  of  steaks  thus  speedily  cut  out  of  the 
Great  Lake  Trout,  Salino  ferox.  This  fish  may,  fortu- 
nately, be  enjoyed,  without  going  quite  so  far,  by  visitors 
to  that  noble  piece  of  water.  Loch  Awe,  Scotland. 

All  other  ways  of  presenting  Fresh  Salmon,  or  Great 
Lake  Trout,  besides  the  above,  we  hold  to  derogate  &om 
the  dignity  of  the  fish.  Potted  and  Collared  Salmon  are 
not  so  good  as,  and  more  troublesome  than.  Pickled 
Salmon.  Baked  Salmon,  Salmon  done  in  Court-Bouillon, 
Salmon  stewed  in  Champagne  and  served  with  a  garnish- 
ing of  turkey-pinions,  are  heresies  or  eccentricities  which 
may  amuse  for  a  while,  but  which  will  take  no  firm  hold 
of  the  British  epicure's  affections. 

ISpper  Salmouy  an  excellent  Scotch  relish  for 
breakfast,  is  best  procured  ready  smoked  and  dried  than 
to  attempt  to  prepare  it  at  home.  Cut  it  into  thinnish 
slices,  and  broil  or  toast  it,  or  set  it  a  few  minutes  in  a 
gentle  oven.  When  very  salt  and  dry,  it  is  the  better  for 
steeping;  indeed,  in  all  cases,  provided  the  steeping  is 
not  continued  too  long. 

Salted  Salmon^  prepared  in  Norway,  may  be  obtained 
vid  Dunkirk,  and  otherwise.  It  merits  more  respectful 
attention  from  the  British  consumer  than  it  has  hitherto 
received. 

Salmon  Trout  is  dressed  exactly  like  Salmon ;  plain 
boiling  is  the  very  best  way.  It  has  the  advantage  of 
being  somewhat  lighter  than  that  fish,  and,  therefore, 
more  suitable  for  delicate  stomachs. 


218  FISH. 

The  common  Trout  enjoys,  as  a  dainty,  a  reputation 
perhaps  superior  to  its  actual  deserts ;  but  it  is  a  beauti- 
ful fish,  afibrds  excellent  sport,  and  makes  an  attrac- 
tive  and  digestible  dish.  It  may  be  either  £ried,  grilled^ 
or  boiled ;  in  the  latter  case,  put  plenty  of  vinegar  in  the 
water.  Or  it  may  be  stewed  in  strong  veal  stock, 
flavoured  with  wine,  lemon-juice,  aromatic  herbs,  and 
pepper  and  salt.  Left  to  cool  in  the  dish,  surrounded 
with  this  gravy,  it  can  be  presented  as  Trout  in  Savoury 
Jelly  when  cold.  It  is  also  excellent  potted,  like  mackarel 
(p.  84) ;  only  care  must  be  tak^i  that  it  do  not  fall  to 
pieces  in  consequence  of  being  over-done. 

The  Charrj  an  Alpine  species  of  Trout,  is  principally 
known  from  its  furnishing,  potted,  a  choice  but  somewhat 
expensive  hors  dCoeuvre.  The  best  charr  are  in  Coniston 
waters,  but  they  are  good  every  where,  especially  to  the 
hungry  traveller  sitting  at  table  within  sight  of  the 
waters  whence  they  have  just  been  fished.  The  potted 
charr  of  Coniston  is  sent,  as  every  epicure  knows,  to  all 
parts  of  the  world  where  men  know  what  is  good.— Jlfiw 
Martineau^s  Guide  to  Windermere. 

The  Snielt  is  one  of  the  most  delicious  of  fish,  but  it 
is  doubtful  whether  it  agrees  with  weak  digestions.  It  is 
apt  to  rise  after  eating,  unless  kept  down  with  an  extra 
glass  of  wine  or  out-door  exercise. 

There  is  only  one  legitimate  way  of  dressing  smelts. 
Wash  well,  but  do  not  empty  them ;  dry  them  well  in 
the  folds  of  a  napkin ;  roU  them  in  flour,  or,  if  veiy  fine, 
it  is  allowable  to  dip  them  in  batter.  Fry  in  plenty  of 
boiling  fat,  and  serve  piping  hot  on  a  napkin.  A  very 


FISH.  219 

short  time  suffices  to  do  them ;  when  of  a  clear,  light 
brown  they  are  enoagh.  Gkunish  with  slices  of  lemon 
and  fried  parsley,  and  let  a  plate  of  brown  bread  and 
batter  be  in  attendance  on  them. 

White-bait  (the  smallest  known  species  of  the  herring 
genus,  and  not,  as  was  once  supposed,  the  fry  of  another 
fish)  are  dressed  and  served  exactly  like  smelts;  only,  being 
smaller,  they  require  less  time  and  more  carefid  watching. 

Fried  smelts  are  excellent  coldy  and  make  a  nice  light 
luncheon  in  a  railway  carriage^ 

The  Atheriney  or  Sand-smeUj  is  often  sold  and  passed 
off  for  the  real  smelt.  It  may  be  distinguished  by  the 
absence  of  the  cucumber  smell  peculiar  to  the  smelt, 
and  by  the  handsome  bright  stripe  running  the  whole 
length  of  its  side.  Considered  in  respect  to  its  own  proper 
merits,  and  not  as  an  impostor,  it  is  a  delicate  and 
wholesome  little  fish,  lighter  on  the  stomach  than  the 
smelt  itself.  It  is  dressed  in  the  same  way,  forming  what 
the  French  call  afriture*  and  of  which  they  are  so  ex- 
ceedingly fond. 

Fritures  are  also  made,  and  enjoyed,  of  small 
bream,  roach,  dace,  bleak,  and  other  minor  fresh-water 
fish,  which  deserve  but  little  attention  from  the  serious 
eater ;  they  are  rather  plagues  to  the  kitchen-maid  who 
has  to  clean  them.  The  gudgeon,  however,  has  the 
advantage  of  offering,  in  its  bones,  a  packet  of  excellent 
picktooths  for  the  end  of  a  meal. 

*  The  word  friture  has  a  doable  signification.  At  first  it  probably 
denoted  only  the  fat  or  oil  in  which  things  are  fried.  Afterwards,  the 
term  was  applied  to  the  thing*,  amongst  which  fried  fish,  being  pre- 
eminently popular,  appropriated  the  term  to  themselyes. 


220  FISH. 

A  better  fry  of  small  fish  (although  not  fresh-water) 
is  aflfbrded  by  the  Sand  Eel,  or  Launce,  of  which  there 
are  two  species ;  one  the  Wide-moutliedj  the  larger,  and 
much  the  rarer,  of  the  two,  attaining  a  length  of  as 
much  as  fifteen  inches;  the  other,  seldom  exceeding 
seven  or  eight  inches,  but  generally  found  half  or  one- 
third  that  length  (which  makes  it  all  tlie  more  suitable 
fovfriture)^  is  common  enough  along  the  sandy  shoi'es  of 
Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  They  are  prepared  for  frying 
by  removing  their  heads  and  gills,  drawing  the  intestines, 
drying,  and  flouring.  If  as  carefully  treated  as  white- 
bait, they  will  bear  a  comparison  with  it  for  richness  and 
delicacy. 

Unfortunately,  from  their  peculiar  habit  of  burrowing 
in  the  sand  at  the  water's  edge,  as  well  as  fix)m  their 
favom*  with  fishermen  as  bait,  they  do  not  often  appear 
at  market;  but  their  capture  is  capital  fun  during  a 
summer  sea-side  visit,  and  is  all  tlie  more  amusing  that 
it  requires  two  persons  to  effect  it  properly.  So  rapidly 
does  the  little  fish  bury  itself  again  in  the  sand  aft;er 
being  disturbed,  that  it  requires  the  utmost  nimbleness 
to  seize  it  before  it  disappears.  On  the  sands  of  Porto- 
bello,  near  Edinburgh,  when  people  have  discovered 
that  a  shoal  of  sand  eels  have  arrived,  they  sally  forth, 
armed  with  spades,  shovels,  rakes,  and  forks,  to  dig  them 
out  When  extricated  fr'om  their  sandy  beds,  the  fish 
leap  about  with  singular  agility,  and  afford  much  sport 
to  the  younger  folk  in  capturing  them. 

But  helter-skelter  work  like  that  must,  on  account 
of  its  want  of  method,  be  comparatively  unproductive. 


FISH.  221 

Althongli,  with  practice,  yon  may  do  something  alone, 
you  onglit,  for  this  sport,  to  run  in  couples;  one  to 
unsand  the  eels,  the  other  to  bag  them. 

An  eye-witness  describes  this  mode  of  proceeding 
— which  has  been  proverbial  from  the  days  of  Virgil 
downwards  as  emblematic  of  "  labour  in  vain."  It  is 
not  the  attempt  to  wash  a  blackamoor  white,  but  the  ap- 
parently fruitless  act  of  ploughing  the  sands  of  the  shore. 

It  is  low  water,  and  we  are  at  the  epoch  of  spring- 
tides, namely,  a  day  or  two  after  the  ftdl  or  new  moon. 
You  see  the  strand  is  covered  with  furrows,  like  those 
in  a  ploughed  field,  only  narrower ;  and,  as  we  advance 
to  the  water's  edge,  we  catch  half  a  dozen  men  and 
women  in  the  profitable  fact  of  ploughing  the  sandy  beach. 

Look  at  that  bright-eyed  lass,  with  her  golden  drop- 
earrings  and  her  neat-fitting  cap,  her  legs  encased  in  dark 
woollen  stockings,  and  her  feet  sensibly  shod  with  wooden 
shoes.  Her  petticoats  are  prudently  short;  a  small 
canvas-bag  is  slung  over  her  apron.  Her  hands  grasp  a 
garden  tool,  which  in  English  vernacular  is  styled  a  hoe. 
With  this  firmly  pressed  on  the  level  sand,  she  walks 
steadily  backwards,  ploughing  tlie  surface.  As  the  wind 
and  tide  happen  to  be  to-day,  her  labour  will  not  turn 
out  so  unproductive  as  you  might  imagine ;  and  the  crop 
will  be  gathered  more  rapidly  than  if  it  were  forced  by 
the  best-advertised  manures  on  tlie  list  of  patents.  I  will 
tell  you  in  confidence  that  that  robust,  good-looking  girl  is 
searching  in  this  barren  soil  for  the  daintiest  dish  which 
appears  on  breakfast-tables  hereabouts. 

We  approach ;  the  plough  moves  steadily  on.     After 


222  FISH. 

a  yard's  lengiih  or  more  of  fiirrow,  her  red  right  hand 
darts  at  her  writhing  prey.  She  has  caught  it  I  It  is  a 
delicate,  silveiy  fish.  On  with  the  plough!  More 
quick-writhing  victims  are  upturned;  the  canvas  bag 
bears  a  respectable  burden.  You  wish  to  help  her,  do 
you,  and  to  save  her  the  trouble  of  picking  up  her  game  ? 
Be  quick,  then,  in  your  motions,  or  you'll  be  sure  to 
catch  a  blank.  There  I  the  fish  is  gone ;  you  liave  lost 
it  Where  is  it  ?  Deep  in  the  sand  by  this  time.  No 
mole  can  burrow  so  rapidly  and  efiectually.  And  there 
is  another ;  you  have  contrived  to  secure  iJiat  before  it 
has  interred  itself.  And  no  wonder  either  I  Its  head — 
see  I — ^has  been  amputated  by  the  hoe.  These  creatures 
liave  the  curious  habit  of  lying  hid  in  the  sand  with  their 
heads  uppermost  and  their  tails  downwards.  Like  Ben 
Jonson  in  Westminster  Abbey,  they  prefer  to  bo  buried 
in  a  perpendicular  position.  Hence  the  number  which 
are  decapitated  in  the  process  of  catching  them,  without, 
however,  thereby  losing  their  liveliness.  Hold,  maiden, 
enough !  The  bag  is  lialf  full.  There  are  already  more 
than  we  can  cat  at  a  meal.  You  will  contruue,  never- 
theless, to  plough  for  sand-eels  or  launces ;  they  will  be 
welcome  as  bait  to  the  fishermen. 

PUce,  The  most  life-respecting  Brahmin  that  ever 
existed  may  feast  on  Pike,  not  only  without  scruple,  but 
as  a  good  work.  He  will  be  helping  to  destroy  insatiable 
destroyers.  The  pike,  from  its  cradle  in  the  river's-bed 
to  its  grave  in  the  fish-kettle,  is  a  pitiless  cannibal, 
without  bowels  of  mercy,  devouring  its  own  children,  its 
brothers  and  sisters,  and,  when  possible,  its  grandfathers 


FISH.  223 

and  grandmothers.  When  not  more  than  a  couple  of 
inches  long,  it  lurks  in  ambush  behind  a  bit  of  water- 
weed  or  under  a  floating  leaf,  ready  to  snap  up  with  its 
relentless  jaws  any  living  thing  that  is  weaker  than  itself. 
Full-grown,  it  does  not  hesitate  to  seize  swans  by  the 
neck  and  mules  by  the  lips.  Notwithstanding  which 
unamiable  ways,  the  pike  is  decidedly  a  goodfidu 

Every  body  has  his  anecdote  of  the  pike's  voracity; 
the  Doctor,  therefore,  may  be  allowed  to  tell  his.  One 
day  he  saw  in  his  fish-pond,  flopping  about  on  the 
surface  of  the  water,  a  queer-looking  nondescript, 
evidently  a  pike  with  a  tail  at  each  end  and  the  head  in 
the  middle.  By  slipping  a  ladder  into  the  pond  and 
stepping  along  its  staves,  the  double-tailed  monster  was 
taken  by  hand.  It  proved  to  be  a  couple  of  pike,  of  nearly 
the  same  size,  which  had  closed  together  in  mortal  coil. 
But  ilvai  fact  was  nothing  out  of  the  common  way.  What 
was  droll  was,  that  it  was  the  smaller  of  the  two  that  had 
tried  to  swallow  the  larger,  endeavouring  to  force  within 
its  greedy  stomach  something  bigger  than  its  own  proper 
self.  And  so  fierce  had  been  the  original  gripe,  that 
neither  could  the  victim  disengage  his  head  from  his 
captor's  jaws,  nor  could  the  captor  loose  his  hold 
of  the  victim's  head.  Things  were  thus  at  a  stand- 
still— a  complete  dead  lock ;  which  we  speedily  settled 
by  giving  each  combatant  a  smart  rap  on  the  back  of 
the  neck.  They  were  afterwards  treated  with  perfect 
impartiality;  stufled  with  the  same  stufiing,  bound  in 
the  same  circular  attitude,  and  accompanied  by  the 
same  sauce,  they  were  served  on  the  same  dish  side  by 


224  FISH. 

side,  and  pronounced  equally  excellent  in  freshness  and 
flavour. 

Pikej  Fried  Piecemeal.  There  is  a  prevalent  idea  and 
custom  in  districts  where  pike  are  most  abundant  that 
this  fish  must  be  served  whole,  of  whatever  size  it  may 
happen  to  be  ;  which  often  renders  the  cooking  it  incon^ 
venient,  and  the  disposing  of  it  cold  next  day  embarrass- 
ing. The  practice,  although  time-honoured,  is  inconsistent 
with  common  sense ;  for  no  one  would  think  of  setting 
a  ten  or  twelve  pound  cod,  whole,  before  a  small  party  or 
family.  By  what  right  or  prescription,  then,  except  a 
usage  which  may  be  well  allowed  to  grow  obsolete,  can  a 
ten  or  twelve  pound  pike  claim  to  appear  in  its  entirety? 

With  the  pike,  as  with  many  other  fish,  the  male  is 
long  and  taper,  the  female  short  and  thick.  The  sexes 
may  be  known,  almost  at  a  glance,  by  tliis  difierence  in 
their  bodily  proportions.  In  consequence  of  her  thick- 
set figure,  the  female  will  often  deceive  the  eye  in  respect 
to  Iter  weiglvL  It  is  prudent,  therefore,  to  consult  the 
scales.  When  a  pike,  after  emptying,  reaches  ten  or 
twelve  potmds,  unless  wanted  to  set  before  a  really  large 
party,  it  may  be  conveniently  and  agreeably  disposed  of 
thus :  Divide  it  into  three  pieces  equal  in  weight ;  boil 
the  head  and  shoulders,  bake  or  roast  the  middle,  and 
fry  the  tail-part  piecemeal. 

Scale  this  portion  of  the  fish  completely ;  split  it 
through  down  the  backbone,  which  remove,  as  well  as 
the  ribs  and  fins.  Then  cut  the  flesh  into  squares  or 
fillets  of  a  size  convenient  to  serve  with  your  spoon  or 
fish-slice  without  dividing  them.     If  you  have  the  time. 


FISH.  225 

let  these  pieces  steep  several  hours — all  night  even — 
in  salt  and  weak  vinegar.  When  wanted,  dry  them  well 
in  a  napkin,  rub  with  flour,  and  fry  to  a  nice  light  brown, 
immersed  in  boiling  fat.  Serve  on  a  napkin  garnished 
with  parsley  and  witli  quarters  of  lemon  for  each  person 
to  squeeze  over  his  piece  of  fish.  Or,  if  there  bo  no 
lemon  at  hand,  oiled  butter  and  vinegar  may  be  sent  up 
in  a  sauce-boat.  This  mode  of  dressing  pike  is  both 
sightly  and  excellent.  It  is  also  good  cold,  with  oil  and 
vinegar. 

Pikey  Small  {comriumly  called  Jack)y  Fried  WhoUy  -4. 
Very  light  and  delicate.  Scale  the  fish  completely, 
without  tearing  the  skin;  leave  on  the  head  and  fins; 
empty  by  splitting  the  belly  open  the  whole  of  its  length. 
Dry,  flour,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  fat     Serve  as  above. 

Pikey  middle-sizedy  Fried  Wlioley  B  (French).  Scale 
your  pike,  remove  the  gills,  and  empty  it  without  opening 
it.  StnfiF  it  with  shallots,  parsley,  and  thyme  chopped 
together  very  fine,  and  mixed  with  pepper,  salt,  allspice, 
and  a  drop  of  vinegar.  Fry,  or  rather  saute,  it  in  butter, 
in  a  stew-pan,  adding  to  it  likewise  minced  shallots, 
parsley,  and  thyme,  pepper  and  salt  When  nearly  done, 
moisten  gradually  with  vinegar,  and  put  the  lid  on  close 
until  it  is  quite  done.  When  the  fish  is  laid  in  its  dish,  givo 
the  gravy  in  the  stew-pan  another  boil  up,  stirring  it  well 
all  the  while ;  then  pour  it  over  the  fish,  and  serve. 

Pikey  Plain^Boiled.  If  served  whole,  after  scaling  and 
emptying  by  opening  the  belly,  stuff  it  with  veal  stuffing 
(p.  74),  and  sew  the  belly  up  again  with  a  needle  and 
thread.     Tie  the  head  and  tail  together,  by  means  of 

Q 


226  FISH. 

string  passed  through  the  eje-holes,  so  as  to  bend  the  fish 
into  the  form  of  a  circle.  If  there  be  any  milt  or  roe, 
it  may  either  be  boiled  plain  and  served  in  the  centre  of 
the  circular  fish,  or  be  mixed  up  with  the  stuffing  as  one 
of  its  ingredients.  Pike  is  a  fish  which  requires  thorough 
cooking,  especially  when  stuffed.  A  five  or  six  pounds 
fish  will  take  about  half  an  hour^s  boiling.  Serve  on 
a  napkin,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  send  up  with 
anchovy  sauce. 

Boiled  head  and  shoulders,  or  middle,  of  pike,  should 
be  accompanied  by  forcemeat  balls  of  the  same  stuffing 
as' above. 

Pike^  Baked  Whole.  Prepare,  stufi^,  and  tie  in  a 
circle,  exactly  as  above.  Put  it  in  a  baking-dish  with  a 
little  flour  and  water  at  the  bottom,  and  lay  lumps  of 
butter  along  its  back.  Set  it  in  the  oven,  and,  when  the 
butter  is  melted,  baste  the  fish  with  its  own  gravy  from 
time  to  time.  When  nearly  done,  add  to  the  gravy  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  capers  and  their  vinegar,  and  a  few 
olives.  When  quite  done,  dish  the  fish ;  put  the  gravy 
into  a  saucepan,  and  finish  it  off  by  adding  stock,  if 
necessary,  thickening  and  smoothing  it  with  a  dust  of 
flour,  and  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt  Pour  hot 
over  the  fish,  and  serve. 

Pike  may  also  be  thus  baked  at/uU  lengthy  if  preferred, 
instead  of  being  tied  neck  and  heels.  Baked  middle  of 
pike  should  either  have  stuffing  in  it,  or  be  accompanied 
by  forcemeat  baHs.  Pike  can  be  baked  either  in  the 
oven  of  a  cooking-stove,  or  in  an  American  oven  before 
the  fire.   <  A  bread  or  baker's  oven,  which  hardly  allows  of 


FISH.  227 

sii£Soient  basting,  is  apt  to  bum  or  dry  up  the  fish.  The 
middle  of  a  very  large  pike  maj  be  roasted  as  a  joint 
before  the  fire. 

Matelote  of  or  with  Pike^  p.  207. 

Pike  au  Bleu^  or  in  Court-BouUlofij  p.  205. 

Pike  a  la  Genevaise,  Boil  the  fish  in  a  court-bouillon 
made  with  all  sorts  of  aromatic  herbs,  and  serve  with 
sauce  prepared  as  follows : 

Make  a  roux  with  butter  and  flour;  moisten  with  the 
court-bouillon,  adding  wine  if  necessary,  with  chopped 
mushrooms,  parsley-leaves,  and  green  onions.  Strain, 
after  stewing  well ;  mix  with  it  essence  of  anchovy  and 
lemon-juice,  and  pour  hot  over  the  fish. 

Pike  (or  otiier  white-fleshed  Fish)  boiled  (American). 
Prepare  a  dressing  with  bread-crumbs,  boiled  eggs  chopped 
fine,  pepper,  salt,  and  butter.  Fill  the  body  of  the  fish, 
and  bind  it  firmly  with  slips  of  cloth.  Boil  gently  until 
thoroughly  cooked.  Bemove  it  to  the  platter,  and  set  it 
in  the  oven  a  few  moments  to  dry.  Boil  eggs  hard ; 
slice  and  lay  them  in  the  platter  ai*ound  the  fish ;  and 
just  before  serving  pour  over  the  fish  a  little  drawn 
butter. 

Prepare  a  sauce  in  this  manner :  Boil  six  eggs  one 
hotu' ;  work  the  yolks,  until  they  become  a  paste,  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  Take  a  teacup  nearly  full  of  sweet 
butter ;  mix  in  it  a  heaping  table-spoohful  of  flour ;  work 
in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  then  stir  gently,  little  by 
little,  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Add  a  little  salt,  if 
needed,  and  pepper;  but,  if  the  butter  is  salted  much,  no 
salt  will  be  required. 


228  nsH. 

Carpj  Tenchj  Perchj  and  Eeh^  unless  obtained  from 
the  clear  waters  of  large  lakes,  like  those  of  Scotland  and 
Switzerland,  will  have  the  muddy  taste  which  is  apt  to 
hang  about  them  considerabljr  diminished  hj  keeping 
them  several  days  in  a  tank  or  cistern  of  clear  spring- 
water  which  is  continually  changed. 

The  Carp  is  highly  glorified  by  continental  epicures, 
much  (the  Doctor  thinks)  beyond  its  merits,  for  which 
it  is  greatly  indebted  to  cooks.  It  is  held  to  be  a  dish 
for  princes,  which  would  be  dishonoured  by  being  cooked 
otherwise  than  in  a  comrt-bouillon.  The  most  esteemed 
are  the  so-called  carp  of  the  Hhine ;  the  majority  of  which 
have  never  been  within  a  couple  of  miles  of  that  mighty 
stream.  Caught  in  the  ponds  of  Lindre,  dondrechanges, 
and  others  in  German  Lorraine,  they  are  brought  still 
young  to  Strasbourg,  and  are  fattened  in  the  river  HI, 
confined  in  enormous  feeding  pools  or  pounds.  There 
they  attain  considerable  sizes,  and  used  to  be  sold  for 
fabulous  prices,  as  much  (it  is  recorded*)  as  thirty  louis 
d'ors  each. 

As  to  tlie  sizes  attained  by  carp,  the  fact  is,  that  that 
fish  (like  its  brilliant  relation  the  gold-fish)  thrives  best  in 
waters  which  reach  a  higher  summer  temperature  than  our 
own.  With  us,  even,  it  prospers  better  in  ponds  whose  cir- 
cumstances allow  them  to  be  well  heated  by  the  summer^s 
sun.  As  to  value,  although  there  is  no  accounting  for 
taste  and  fitshion,  it  was  no  doubt  heightened,  in  ante- 
railway  times,  by  the  carp's  wonderful  power  of  support- 
ing transport  to  long  distances  alive.     The  above-cited 

*  Almanack  de$  Govrmandi,  1803,  p.  86. 


FISH.  229 

writer  saw  one,  In  1786,  which  had  twice  been  from 
Strasbourg  to  Paris,  and  was  brought  back  again  for 
want  of  a  purchaser.     It  performed  the  journey  in  the 
courier^s  trunk,  and  with  no  other  sustenance  than  bread 
soaked  in  wine.     Perhaps,  he  concludes,  it  may  be  living 
still.     Let  us  hope  so ;  for  there  is  no  known  limit  to  the 
natural  life  of  a  carp.     The  Doctor  has  seen  carp,  and 
those  not  large  ones,  which  we)*e  more  than  seventy  years 
of  age.     They  had  been  put  into  a  small  pond  seventy 
years  ago  by  the  grandfather  of  their  then  proprietor; 
and  they  were  known  to  be  the  same  individuals,  because 
every  year  they  were  taken  out  and  kept  in  a  tub  while 
their  pond  was  being  cleaned.     How  old  they  were  when 
first  put  in,  nobody  know.     During  those  long  seventy 
years  they  had  grown  scarcely  at  all,  owing  to  the  stunt- 
ing tendency  of  the  cold  chalybeate  water  in  which  they 
lived.     When  tlie  Doctor  saw  them,  there  appeared  no 
reason  why  they  should  not  live  seventy,  or  twice  or 
thrice  seventy,  years  longer.     Surely  no  one  would  ever 
think  of  eating  such  venerable  fish  as  these  I 

The  milts  of  carp  are  much  sought  after,  and  the 
tongue  18  one  of  the  epicure's  morsels.  In  whatever  way 
a  carp  is  to  be  dressed,  it  is  improved  by  marinading, 
or  pickling,  some  hours  previously.  Carp  is  reputed  a 
light,  wholesome  aliment,  agreeing  with  every  constitu- 
tion, and  which  may  be  given  to  convalescents,  especially 
when  grilled.  It  is  one  of  those  fish  whose  dignify 
exacts  carving,  not  with  a  spoon,  but  with  a  silver 
trowel. 

Carp  in  Court^Bouillon^  p.  205. 


230  FIBH. 

Carp  h  la  Venetienne  (  Venetian  way).  Scale,  empty^ 
and  take  oat  the  gills  of  a  handsome  cai*p.  Wash  it 
with  a  small  glass  of  brandy ;  pepper  and  salt  it  moder- 
ately inside  and  out ;  deposit  it  in  the  fish-kettle  on  a  bed 
of  white  onions  sliced  very  thin,  and  all  sorts  of  sweet 
herbs  at  command.  Stew  it,  with  the  lid  close,  a  good 
quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  add  to  it  a  pint  of  common 
white  wine,  a  tumbler  of  water,  two  pounded  anchovies^ 
and  a  lump  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour.  Stew  all  together 
gently.     When  the  fish  is  enough  cooked,  reduce  the 

■ 

sauce  to  a  proper  consistence,  strain  it,  and  pour  it  hot 
over  the  fish  on  your  dish. 

Carpy  Fried,  Select  a  carp  with  a  soft  roe  or  milt ; 
scale  and  empty  without  opening  it  Slit  it  down  the 
back,  leaving  the  head  hanging  on  by  nothing  but  the 
belly  part  Flatten  the  backbone ;  dust  your  fish  well  with 
flour,  as  also  the  milt  which  you  have  set  apart  Put  the 
whole  into  plenty  of  hot  fat ;  fry  to  a  nice  bright  colour, 
and  serve  garnished  with  quartered  lemons. 

Marinade  of  Caiy^  or  atlwr  frefih'-WQier  Fish.  Cut  your 
carp  across  into  thick  sUces  or  steaks ;  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan  with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  a  few  cloves, 
a  few  slices  of  onion,  some  sweet  basil,  and  the  jjuice  of 
a  lemon,  or,  in  default  thereof,  a  dash  of  vinegar.  Stir 
up  all  well  together,  to  make  the  pickle  penetrate  and 
communicate  its  flavour.  An  hour  before  serving,  drain 
and  dry  your  slices  of  carp  ;  then  dust  them  with  flour,, 
fry  to  a  bright  brown,  and  serve  garnished  with  fried 
parsley. 

Or  the  pieces  may  be  egged  and  bread-crumbed,  or 


FISH.  231 

dipped  in  batter,  before  fiying;  but  in  either  of  those 
cases,  the  fish  ought  first  to  be  three-parts  cooked  in  the 
marinade. 

Tench,  eels,  pike,  trout,  barbel,  and  other  river  fish, 
may  be  dressed  in  the  same  way.  When  not  too  large, 
they  can  be  firied  whole,  if  preferred. 

Broiled  Carp.  When  your  fish  is  scaled,  emptied, 
and  wiped  thoroughly  dry,  smear  it  with  a  little  oil,  and 
lay  it  on  the  gridiron.  When  done,  you  may  serve  it 
either  on  a  bed  of  sorrel,  or  with  caper  sauce,  or  with 
a  maitre-d'hdtel  sauce,  or  simply  with  oil  and  vinegar. 
Either  way,  it  is  light  and  digestible. 

Stuffed  Carp.  Chop  fine  some  button  mushrdoms, 
together  with  parsley,  chives,  and  a  couple  of  small 
onions ;  toss  them  in  a  saucepan  over  a  brisk  fire  with  a 
little  butter.  If  the  carp  has  any  roe,  it  should  be  mixed 
up  with  the  above.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  and  mix  there- 
with minced  hard  egg-yolks,  chopped  anchovy,  pepper 
and  salt 

Scale  and  empiy  your  carp,  and  split  it  open  along 
the  belly;  put  your  stufiing  in,  and  sew  it  up  again. 
Oil  a  sheet  of  paper,  wrap  your  carp  in  it,  and  lay  it  on 
the  gridiron  over  a  moderate  fire.  When  thoroughly 
done,  remove  the  paper,  and  serve  the  carp  on  a  hot  oval 
dish,  with  a  good  lump  of  butter  well  worked  up  witli 
minced  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon-juice. 

Stewed  Carp.  Scale  and  empty  your  carp,  and  cut 
it  across  into  steaks.  Make  a  brown  roux  with  butter 
and  flour ;  brown  in  it  a  few  small  onions ;  add  sprigs  of 
thyme  and  parsley,  a  bay-leaf,  a  clove  of  garlic,  grated 


232  FX8H. 

nutmeg,  and  a  few  button  mushrooms;  moisten  with 
half  broth  and  half  red  wine. 

Into  this  liquor  put  your  carp,  and  let  it  boil  brisklj. 
When  thoroughly  done,  lay  slices  of  toasted  bread  at  the 
bottom  of  your  dish ;  on  them  hiy  the  carp,  and  pour  the 
sauce  over  it 

Carp  a  la  Chambord.  A  troublesome  and  expensive 
mode  in  which  large  fresh-water  fish,  of  various  kinds,  are 
occasionally  dressed  by  foreign  cooks,  but  which  really 
is  more  for  show  than  satisfaction.  The  reader,  however, 
ought  to  know  what  is  meant  by  fish  a  la  Cfuztnbord;  he 
can  then  exercise  his  own  discretion  in  ordering  his 
"  G(*)d  Plain"  to  execute  it  on  any  fine  specimen  that 
may  fall  into  his  hands. 

Scale  and  empty  your  carp.  You  may  stuff  it  or  not 
with  any  stufiing  that  suits  your  fancy,  sewing  up  the 
belly  afterwards.  Lard,  or  rather  2^rick*  one  side  of  it 
with  small  strips  of  bacon ;  or  you  may  prick  it,  in  stripes 
across,  with  threads  of  bacon,  covering  the  parts  not 
pricked  with  slices  of  bacon,  so  as  to  give  it  the  appear- 
ance of  a  cross  between  a  zebra  and  a  hedgehog.  Lay 
the  carp  in  a  deep  dish  that  will  stand  the  oven.  Pour 
into  the  dish  just  enough  high-seasoned  court-bouillon, 
or  marinade,  to  leave  the  larded  portion  of  the  fish 
uncovered.  Put  it  into  the  oven,  and  bake,  basting 
frequently.     When  done,  remove  the  slices  of  bacon,  and 

*  In  strict  culinary  language,  piquery  to  prick,  is  to  lard,  with  a 
larding-pin,  the  surface  of  veal,  fowls,  &c.  To  lard,  is  to  introduce 
square  strips  of  bacon  through  meat,  so  that  when  cut  across  it  has  a 
slight  resemblance  to  a  chess-board.  The  learner  must  see  the  thing 
done. 


FISH.  233 

glaze  (with  stock  redaced)  the  parts  thej  had  covered ; 
leave  the  pricks  of  bacon,  which  shoald  be  of  a  delicate 
brown.  Transfer  the  fish  carefally,  and  without  breaking 
it,  to  the  dish  on  which  it  is  to  appear. 

Garnish  the  fish  round  with  a  medley  of  any  thing 
your  imagination  or  your  resources  can  get  together. 
Perfectly  orthodox  items  are — ^fried  bread,  artichoke- 
bottoms,  crawfish,  cocks'-combs,  bits  of  sweetbread  (white 
or  brown,  pricked  with  bacon  or  not),  mushrooms, 
truffles,  squabs  or  young  pigeons,  forcemeat  balls,  que- 
nellesj  and — ^what  not  else  ? 

Mix  together  the  marinade  in  which  the  fish  was 
baked,  with  enough  Spanish  sauce  to  make  it  sufficiently 
thick ;  boil  up,  pour  it  over  all,  and  servo. 

The  queneUes  just  mentioned  are  notliing  more  than 
true  forcemeat  balls,  about  the  size  and  shape  of  a  hen's 
egg,  moulded  between  a  couple  of  tablespoons.  Their 
ingredients  may  be  the  flesh  of  butchers'  meat,  fowl, 
or  game,  minced  or  pounded  very  fine,  seasoned  with 
herbs,  salt,  and  spices,  enriched  witli  chopped  veal  suet, 
and  bound  together  by  raw  egg.  Or,  for  meager  dishes, 
quenelles  may  be  composed  of  chopped  cold  fish,  butter, 
bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milk,  with  herbs  and  seasoning 
to  taste. 

When  moulded  or  rolled  into  shape,  the  quenelles 
are  thrown  into  boiling  salt-and-water,  and  galloped  for 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  "  Some  people,"  says  Ude, 
^^  poach  the  quenelles  in  broth.  In  my  opinion,  it  is 
spoiling  the  broth."  He  is  right;  because,  whether 
water  be  used  or  the  richest  soup,  it  should  enter  the 


234  FISH. 

substance  of  quenelles  as  little  as  possible.  In  fact,  they 
are  a  sort  of  composite  dumpling,  and  the  Doctor  would 
suggest  the  rolling  them  in  flour  and  steaming  them; 
the  only  objection  to  which  is,  that  they  would  not  be 
exactly  round  or  «gg-shaped,  but  have  an  under-side  at 
the  part  where  they  touched  the  steamer. 

Quenelles,  afler  a  partial  poaching,  may  be  drained, 
dried,  dipped  into  batter,  and  fried.  But  the  pan  must 
be  deep,  and  the  fat  hot  and  in  plenty ;  otherwise  the 
quenelles  will  come  out  lumps  of  sponge  saturated  with 
grease. 

Fried  quenelles  are  often  served  as  a  dish  by  them* 
selves,  instead  of,  or  in  company  with,  little  patties,  &c, 
as  an  entr&  between  the  fish  and  the  joint  tliat  follows  it. 

It  is  needless  to  enter  with  greater  precision  into  the 
composition  of  quenelles  (although  one  or  two  special 
kinds  will  be  given  in  their  places),  because  no  two  cooks 
of  eminence  make  them  exactly  alike.  Each  die/  gives 
some  finishing  touch  of  his  own,  which  he  believes  himself 
entitled  to  patent.  Others,  again,  swell  their  materials 
with  such  vulgar  ingredients  as  cow's  udder  and  calfs 
pluck. 

Small  Carpy  Tenchj  or  Perchy  Fried^  are  sometimes 
employed  to  form  an  attendant  circle  round  any  large 
fresh-water  fish  (either  boiled,  stewed,  or  au  bleu)  when 
served  whole.  They  thus  make  a  tasty  accompaniment^ 
in  every  sense  of  the  word;  and  are  much  less  incon- 
gruous than  the  costly  odds  and  ends  which  we  have 
seen  it  is  the  rule  to  heap  round  fish  a  la  Chanibord, 

The  Tench  is  one  of  many  instances  of  the  difierent 


nsH.  235 

way  in  which  the  same  thing  is  appreciated  in  different 
countries.  On  the  Continent,  its  kitchen-rank  is  far 
inferior  to  that  of  its  consin-germain  the  carp ;  whUe 
here,  we  may  venture  to  say,  it  is  preferred  by  judges 
who  are  well  acquainted  with  both.  The  meat  of  the 
tench  is  light,  delicate,  and  nutritious.  The  highly 
gelatinous  nature  of  its  skin  gives  a  richness,  without 
oiliness,  to  dishes  into  which  it  enters  (as  a  matelote) 
superior  to  that  communicated  by  any  other  fresh-water 
fish,  not  even  excepting  the  eeL  The  great  objection 
made  to  the  tench  is,  that  it  is  apt  to  taste  of  the  muddy 
waters,  which  are,  indeed,  its  natural  haunts.  The  fault 
may  be  remedied  in  a  great  measure,  if  not  entirely^ 
by  allowing  the  fish  to  cleanse  themselves  in  a  basin  fed 
by  a  running  stream;  and  if  half  the  pains  were  bestowed 
on  the  tench  that  are  considered  indispensable  with  the 
carp,  a  slight  flavour  of  alluvial  waters  would  be  rendered 
imperceptible. 

Tenchj  Flain'-Boiled.  Scale  the  fish  veiy  carefully,, 
and  empty  by  slitting  open  the  belly.  Let  them  lie  for 
several  hours,  or  all  night,  in  a  mixture  of  salt  and  weak 
vinegar.  The  scales,  which  are  small  and  deep-set,  will 
be  got  rid  of  more  easily  by  plunging  the  fish  a  minute 
in  boiling  water,  and  tlien  scraping  off  the  scales.  The 
same  method  may  be  practised  with  Perch,  which  are 
also  difficult  to  scale. 

Set  your  fish-kettle  on  the  fire  with  a  little  more  cold 
water  in  it  than  will  suffice  to  completely  cover  the  fish. 
Throw  into  this  a  wineglass  of  vinegar.  If  you  intend 
making  use  of  the  boilings  for  sauce  or  fish  jeUy,  do  not 


236  FISH. 

add  any  salt  When  it  boils,  throw  in  your  fish.  From 
ten  minutes  to  a  quarter  of  an  hour  will  be  enough  for 
fish  of  fi-om  one  to  two  pounds  weight.  About  ten 
minutes  will  sufiiee  for  smaller  fish,  boiling  briskly. 
Serve  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  accompanied 
by  anchovy  sauce,  weak  of  the  anchovy,  and  which  may 
be  made  with  the  boilings  of  the  fish  instead  of  water. 
This  dish,  fianked  by  mashed  potatoes,  may  be  advan- 
tageously set  before  convalescents. 

Tenchy  Stewed^  Prepare  and  pickle  the  fish  as  above. 
Set  it  on  the  fire,  in  a  mixture  just  enough  to  cover  it 
of  half  good  veal  broth  and  half  red  wine,  cold,  with  a 
few  peppercorns,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  sprig  of 
parsley  and  sweet  marjoram.  When  the  boiling-point  is 
reached,  let  it  simmer  slowly,  takuig  care  the  fish  do  not 
break.  When  done,  transfer  it  to  an  oval  dish ;  garnish 
it  round  with  alternate  bits  of  toasted  broadband  slices  of 
lemon. 

Remove  the  bouquet  and  lemon-peel  fi'om  the  gravy. 
Thicken  it  with  a  bit  of  butter  worked  in  flour ;  season 
to  taste  with  salt,  or  with  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  sauce 
and  tlie  juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  boil  up,  and  pour  over  the 
fish. 

Tenchy  Coldy  in  Jelly.  For  your  mould,  take  an 
ordinary  pie-dish,  more  than  deep  enough  for  yom*  tench 
to  lie  in.  Make  a  clear  savoury  jelly  with  either  pigs* 
feet  or  a  calf's  foot  With  this,  fill  the  bottom  of  your 
dish  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  or  so.  Set  it  aside  to  cool 
and  stifien. 

Stew  your  tench  exactly  as  above.     When  done, 


FISH.  237 

take  it  out  to  oool ;  when  cold^  laj  it  in  the  pie-dish^  on 
the  bed  of  cold  savoury  jelly. 

Boil  down  the  gravy  in  which  the  tench  was  stewed 
till  it  forms  a  stiff  jelly  when  cold.  Let  it  cool ;  then 
break  it  up  into  lumps,  not  too  small,  and  distribute 
them  around  and  over  the  cold  tench  lying  in  its  dish. 

Warm  up  the  rest  of  your  clear  jelly  just  to  the  point 
of  liquefaction ;  pour  it  over  the  tench  till  fairly  covered. 
Set  aside  to  stiffen  all  night  in  the  coldest  place  (short  of 
freezing)  you  have. 

Next  day,  when  wanted,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  with 
the  help  of  a  hot  cloth  applied  for  a  moment  to  the  under 
parts  of  the  pie-dish.  Nicely  managed,  this  makes  a 
welcome  addition  either  to  a  luncheon  or  a  sit-down 
supper. 

Tench^  Fried.  Clean  and  prepare  as  above.  An 
hour  before  they  are  wanted,  dry  them  well  in  a  napkin, 
dust  with  flour,  and  fry  plunged  in  boiling  fat.  Serve 
on  a  napkin,  garnished  with  fried  parsley.  Delicate 
anchovy  sauce  may  be  offered  with  them. 

The  tench  may  be  cooked  in  any  of  the  ways  indicated 
for  the  carp.  As  he  not  rarely  attains  respectable  pro- 
portions, he  is  perfectly  presentable  under  the  same 
conditions.  A  large  tench,  or  a  brace  of  fine  ones, 
stewed,  really  make  a  handsome  dish. 

Tench  a  la  Foulette  (Swiss).  Scale  and  clean  your 
fish,  opening  their  bellies.  Cut  them  across  into  pieces 
or  steaks,  which  throw  into  boiling  salt-and-water ;  let 
them  boil  briskly  three  or  four  minutes ;  take  out,  drain, 
and  set  aside  to  cool.     If  convenient,  and  a  help  to  the 


238  FISH, 

cook  in  getting  forward,  they  can  be  prepared  up  to  this 
point  the  day  before,  or  daring  the  morning  of  the  dinner. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan ;  give  your  tench- 
steaks  a  toss  or  two  in  this,  till  they  begin  to  show  colour. 
Add  a  little  flour,  and  dilute  gradually  with  white  wine 
and  water;  throw  in  a  bouquet  complete,  and  a  few 
mushrooms. 

When  the  fish  is  done,  arrange  it  on  its  dish ;  remove 
the  bouquet ;  reduce  the  sauce  by  boiling  it  a  minute  or 
two  longer;  finish  it  off  with  a  dash  of  vinegar,  thicken- 
ing with  yolk  of  egg,  and  pour  it,  witli  the  mushrooms, 
over  the  fish. 

Tench^  with  Sweet  Herbs.  After  cleaning  as  before, 
marinade  them  in  oil,  with  chopped  parsley,  chives, 
shallots,  thyme,  bay-leaf,  pepper  and  salt  Aft»r  re- 
maining there  several  hours,  wrap  them  with  their 
marinade  in  a  sheet  of  oiled  or  buttered  paper;  lay 
them  on  the  gridiron,  and  broil.  When  done,  turn  them 
out  of  the  paper  upon  a  hot  dish. 

Respecting  Perchy  most  people  are  agreed  that  it  is 
excellent ;  taken  fi-om  tlie  waters  of  clear,  deep  lakes,  it 
may  even  be  pronounced  an  exquisite  fish.  For  invalids 
it  is  especially  rccommendable.  Without  ever  becoming 
a  monster  or  a  show,  it  is  often  to  be  had  of  satisfactory 
size.     The  best  modes  of  dressing  it  are  : 

Perchy  Plain^BoUed.  Clean,  prepare,  and  proceed 
exactly  as  with  tench. 

Perchy  Pried,     Idem,  ditto,  the  same. 

Perch  in  Court-Bouillon,  Treat  like  carp  and  pike ; 
but  they  must  be  large  specimens  for  this. 


FISH.  239 

Perchj  with  Sweet  Herbs.  Scale  (which  is  a  trouble- 
some operation  with  perchj  rendering  the  fishmonger's 
assistance  acceptable)  and  empty  them.  Marinade  them, 
several  hours  in  a  mixture  of  olive-oil^  parsley,  pepper, 
salt,  and  sweet  herbs  minced  very  fine.  When  wanted, 
smear  them  with  egg,  and  sprinkle  them  well  with  a 
mixture  of  grated  crumb  of  stale  bread,  and  fine-minced 
sweet  herbs.  Broil  them  over  a  gentle  fire  until  thoroughly 
done  and  nicely  yellow-browned  on  both  sides.  If  any 
sauce  is  served  with  them,  it  should  be  of  the  simplest, 
as  a  little  lemon-juice,  or  oiled  butter  with  a  dash  of 
vinegar. 

Perch  in  Wine.  Handsome-sized  fish  are  required 
for  this.  Scale,  clean,  and  open  them ;  put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  with  half  white  wine,  half  good  broth,  bay-leaf, 
clove  of  garlic,  bunch  of  parsley  and  chives,  three  or  four 
cloves,  and  a  little  salt.  When  cooked,  take  up  the  fish, 
strain  the  liquor,  thicken  it  with  butter  worked  with 
flour,  stirring  continually  until  well  incorporated.  Season 
with  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  few  drops  of  essence 
of  anchovy,  and  pour  it  hot  over  your  perch. 

The  famous  Perch  a  la  "  Waster-fish^''  or  "  Waiter- 

fiichy'  is  the  same  as  the  above,  with  slight  alterations 

according  to  the  caprice  of  cooks :  such  as  sticking  the 

red  fins  into  the  side  of  the  fish,  to  show  what  fish  it 

is. 

Perch  and  pike  are  to  be  had  in  great  perfection  in 
the  mountainous  regions  of  the  United  Kingdom ;  where, 
however,  they  are  thrown  into  the  shade  by  the  over- 
powering magnificence  of  the  lordly  salmon.     Notwith- 


240  FISH. 

standing  wbioh^  thej  can  be  eaten  oftener^  digested  more 
easily,  and  procured  during  a  longer  period  of  the  year, 
.  than  their  aristocratic  rival. 

The  Eel,  so  uglj  during  life,  is  an  almost  universal 
favourite  afler  death.  A  little  heavy,  although  nutri- 
tious, few  fish  have  greater  power  to  tempt  people  to 
commit  gastronomic  imprudences.  Humble  in  its  birth, 
plebeian  in  its  manners,  fond  of  retirement,  nay,  hating 
the  light,  its  modesty  is  rewarded  by  admission  to  the 
wealthiest  tables;  where,  however,  it  rarely  appears 
whole,  not  even  disguised  a  la  Tartare — the  finest  way 
of  dressing  the  finest  eels.  Nevertheless,  if  quite  gigantic 
in  stature,  it  might  be  roasted  on  a  spit,  enveloped  in 
oiled  paper,  and  served  in  a  lake  of  some  learned  sauce. 
But  it  is  only  in  the  quality  of  "  Monster"  that  it  could 
expect  to  be  paid  so  high  an  honour.  Ordinarily,  it 
resigns  itself  to  be  eaten  fried,  spitehcocked,  stewed,  or 
collared.  It  is  frequently  called  upon  to  play  its  part  in 
gamishings,  of  which  it  is  the  brightest  ornament,  re- 
ceiving there  due  admiration  in  recompense  for  its  extreme 
humility.  As  to  the  skinning  (which  Ude  improved  by 
throwing  the  creature  into  the  fire,  alive),  it  has  got 
used  to  it  by  this  time,  regarding  it  as  an  old-established 
ceremony;  nay,  more,  as  an 'indispensable  matter  of 
course.  An  eel,  however,  may  be  easily  stunned  by 
grasping  it  by  the  middle  with  a  coarse  woollen  clotli, 
or  with  a  hand  previously  rubbed  with  dry  sand,  and 
then  knocking  the  back  of  its  head  against  a  stone  or 
other  hard  substance.  If,  while  stunned,  it  is  cleverly 
decapitated  and  skinned,  there  is  little  probability  that 


FISH.  241 

it  retains  much  consciousness  of  what  is  passing  around 
it  afterwards. 

EeU  a  la  Tartartj  A.  Take  a  couple  of  middle- 
sized  eels ;  skin  and  clean  them ;  cut  off  the  heads  and 
the  thinnest  part  of  the  tail-ends;  score  or  *  crimp  the 
fish  at  equal  distances  along  their  lengthy  as  if  you  were 
going  to  joint  an  ox-tail.  Powder  the  slashes  in  the  eels 
with  parsley  and  chives  minced  very  fine.  Tie  the  eels 
together  in  such  a  way,  that  between  them  they  shall 
form  a  ring  or  circle,  resembling  the  emblem  of  eternity. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  with  carrots 
and  onions  sliced,  parsley,  and  bay-leaf.  After  they 
have  had  a  turn  or  two  in  the  heated  butter,  add  salt 
and  peppercorns,  and  dilute  with  white  wine  and  water. 
When  this  liquor  is  cooked  enough,  strain  it,  and  then 
put  your  circle  of  eel  to  boil  in  it  When  half  done, 
take  it  out  and  let  it  cool. 

When  cold,  wet  it  with  your  sauce,  and  dust  it  with 
bread-crumbs.  Smear  it  again  with  beat-up  egg,  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt,  and  sprinkle  more  bread- 
crumbs over  it.  Then  broil  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a 
gentle  fire.  When  done,  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour 
Tartar  Sauce  (p.  126)  into  the  middle  of  the  circle. 

N.B.  This  receipt  may  be  simplified  by  merely  broil- 
ing the  circle  of  eel,  without  any  previous  caoking  either 
in  sauce  or  in  plain  salt-and-water.  But  unless  the  eels 
are  quite  undersized,  it  is  more  prudent  to  parboil  them 
in  some  liquid,  to  insure  their  being  thoroughly  done. 
Besides,  it  affords  the  groat  advantage  of  their  being 
advanced  a  step  in  case  of  press  of  time. 

R 


242  FISH. 

Eels  a  la  Tartare — Tartar  Eeh^  B.  Skin  your  eels, 
cut  them  into  lengths  of  about  two  inches,  and  boil 
them  in  savoury  gravy  or  broth  which  has  wine  in  it, 
with  a  little  sali  When  cold,  take  them  out;  let  drain; 
dip  them  in  a  mixture  of  oiled  butter  and  uncooked  egg- 
yolk  ;  roll  them  in  crumbs  of  bread  till  they  are  well  and 
equally  covered  with  them ;  lay  them  on  a  gridiron,  till 
they  are  well  heated  throughout  and  nicely  browned 
outside.  Serve  on  a  layer  of  Tartar  Sauce  at  the  bottom 
of  the  dish. 

Stewed  Eels.  For  this,  fine  eels  are  best,  and  also 
those  procured  from  brackish  waters, — as  the  mouths  of 
rivers,  open  harbours,  &c.  Cut  the  eels,  when  skinned, 
into  lengths  of  two  or  three  inches.  Steep  tliem  for  a 
while  in  salt  and  vinegar.  In  your  stew-pan  make  a 
roux  with  butter  and  Hour,  and  broAvn  in  it  a  few  slices 
of  onion.  Dilute  with  good  broth  and  wine  until  you 
have  enough  liquid  to  cover  your  eels. 

Put  them  in,  with  whole  pepper,  bouquet  of  herbs, 
salt,  and  a  bit  of  lemon-peel,  and  two  or  three  cloves. 
Stew  gently,  till  the  pieces  of  eel  are  quite  done,  without 
£dling  to  pieces. 

Arrange  the  pieces  of  eel  in  your  dish.  Bemove  the- 
bouquet  and  lemon-peel  from  the  gravy ;  add  to  it  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon ;  taste  whether  it  requires  furtlier 
seasoning ;  boil  up,  and  pour  hot  over  the  eel. 

This  dish,  moderately  partaken  of,  is  both  wholesomo 
and  restorative.  It  is  also  very  palatable  cold.  When 
prepared  with  that  intention,  it  will  bear  more  seasoning 
than  if  intended  to  be  consumed  hot;  and  the  quantity 


FISH.  243 

of  lemon-juioe  may  be  increased  or  replaced  by  a  smaU 
wineglassfiil  of  vinegar. 

Uel  a  ritaltenne.  Take  a  large  eel,  skinned ;  cut  it 
into  pieces  three  inches  long.  Boil  them  in  white  wine 
and  water. 

Pat  into  a  saaoepan  a  good  lump  of  butter,  with 
shallots  and  mushrooms  minced  very  fine,  and  seasoned 
with  salt  and  peppercorns.  When  it  begins  to  heat,  add 
two  spoonfuls  of  good  stock  or  gravy,  and  the  liquor  in 
which  the  eel  was  boiled.  When  this  sauce  is  sufficiently 
reduced,  arrange  the  pieces  of  eel  on  a  dish,  and  pour  it 
over  them  boiling  hot. 

The  flesh  of  eels  being  oily  and  viscous,  they  should 
be  thoroughly  cooked,  and  rather  highly  seasoned  (in 
whatever  way  they  are  dressed),  to  prevent  their  causing 
indigestion. 

JEely  piqude — Porcupine  Eel,  Hang  a  large  eel 
(stunned  or  killed)  by  the  neck  to  a  nail.  Make  an 
incision  in  the  skin  below  the  gills,  and  strip  off  the 
skin  by  drawing  it  downwards  &om  the  head  to  the  taiL 
Empty  it  at  the  orifice  of  the  gills,  and  suppress  the  head* 

Then  prick  it  along  the  back  with  long,  thin  strips  of 
bacon.  Boll  or  twist  it  in  such  a  way  that  these  quills 
of  bacon  stand  outside  and  uppermost,  fixing  it  in  the 
posture  you  give  it  with  string  and  small  wooden  skewers. 
Then  bake  it  in  the  oven. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  lump  of  good  butter,  slices  of 
carrot,  small  onions,  garlic,  parsley,  thyme,  bay-leaf, 
pepper,  salt,  and  mixed  spices.  When  the  carrots  and 
onions  are  browned,  moisten  with  broth  and  white  wine. 


244  FISH. 

boil  an  hour,  strain,  heat  up  again,  and  pour  it  over 
the  eel. 

You  maj  send  up  with  it  either  Tartar  or  Tomato 
Sauce. 

Spitchcocked  Eelsy  A.  Skin  and  split  them  down 
the  back,  take  out  the  bone,  and  cut  them  into  pieces 
three  inches  long.  Egg  them,  and  dip  them  in  a 
mixture  of  bread-crumbs,  minced  sweet  herbs,  and 
ground  white  pepper.  Broil  them  over  a  charcoal  or 
verj  clear  cinder  fire.  Serve  with  lemon,  to  squeeze 
over  them. 

Spitchcocked  EeU^  B,  Leave  the  skin  on;  merelj 
open  the  bcUj  without  splitting  the  fish,  cut  it  into  short 
lengths,  which  boil  in  salt-and-water  till  three-qitarters 
done ;  then  finish  them  off  on  the  gridiron  with  bread- 
crumbs, &c,  as  above;  or,  if  more  convenient,  they  can 
be  browned  in  a  Dutch  or  American  oven.  Anchovy 
sauce  may  be  sent  up  with  them. 

It  is  the  right  thing  to  leave  the  skin  on  spitch- 
cocked eels,  but  its  oiliness  renders  them  more  indiges- 
tible. The  parboiling  in  part  removes  the  objection, 
besides  insuring  the  eels  being  done  thoroughly  and 
tender. 

Eels  a  la  Poulette.  Cut  the  eels  into  short  lengths, 
and  stew  them  in  a  marinade  of  salt,  vinegar  and  water, 
and  pepper,  setting  it  on  the  fire  cold,  and  not  more 
than  wiU  cover  them. 

Make  a  white  roux;  moisten  with  veal  broth  or 
consomm^;  throw  in  some  parsley  and  onions,  both 
chopped  fine ;  boil  twenty  minutes ;  then  add  the  juice 


FISH,  245 

of  a  lemon  and  some  button  mushrooms ;  stir  in  as  much 
of  the  marinade  in  which  the  eels  were  boiled  as  will 
bring  it  to  a  proper  consistence,  thickening  if  required 
with  egg-jolk ;  arrange  the  pieces  of  eel  in  jour  dish, 
and  pour  the  poulette  sauce  over  them. 

Eel  Pie.  Select  jour  pie*dish.  Take  in  jour  right 
hand  a  cup  (without  handle)  full  of  high-seasoned  veal 
or  other  consomm^ ;  with  jour  left  hand  place  over  it 
the  inverted  pie-disL  Bj  a  rapid  movement,  reverse 
their  positions;  the  cup,  inverted,  will  stand  in  the 
middle  of  Ihe  dish,  retaining  its  gravy. 

Skin,  clean,  and  cut  jour  eels  into  short  lengths. 
The  eels  should  be  all  of  about  the  same  size,  in  order 
that  thej  maj  cook  equallj«  Dust  each  piece  of  eel 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  roll  it  in  flour.  Then  arrange 
the  eels  in  the  pie-dish.  You  maj  intersperse  them 
with  button  mushrooms,  hard  eggs  in  quarters,  cocks'- 
combs,  forcemeat  balls,  dice  of  half-cooked  calf  s  head 
or  veal,  or  other  garnishing ;  or  jou  maj  laj  slices  of 
thin  veal  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Sprinkle  over  them 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom 
ketchup,  and  then  pour  in  a  cupful  or  two  of  good  veal 
broth.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  paste  proportioned  in 
thickness  and  lightness  to  the  time  jou  reckon  (from 
their  size)  the  eels  will  take  to  cook  thoroughlj  without 
being  overdone.  Bake  in  a  moderate  (not  a  slow) 
oven. 

Eel  pie  is  mostlj  eaten  cold,  and  is  useful  for  lunch* 
eons,  picnics,  &c. 

Eel  Patties.     Cook  inch-lengths  of  eel  hla  poulette. 


246  FISH. 

When  done,  with  a  knife  and  fork  remove  the  back- 
bone,  so  that  each  piece  remains  in  halves ;  which  will 
leave  the  morsels  of  eel-meat  quite  large  enough,  besides 
the  advantage  of  being  boned. 

When  the  puff-crust  of  your  patties  is  ready  (see 
Vol-au-Vent),  heat  up  your  fish  ragoiit,  and  with  it  fill 
the  patties,  putting  into  each  a  fair  proportion  of  flesh 
and  gravy. 

The  flavour  of  the  ragoM  may  be  varied  by  a  dash 
of  mushroom  ketchup,  or  Soy,  or  Harvey's  or  anchovy 
sauce;  so  that  it  will  be  perfectly  easy  to  send  up  at 
once  eel  patties  of  three  or  four  different  flavours  and 
colouring  of  their  ragodt. 

Matdate  of  Eels  (p  207). 

Collared  Eel  (p.  85). 

The  Sturgeon^  like  the  salmon,  is  a  denizen  of  the 
seas,  who,  by  ascending  rivers,  courts  for  himself  the 
dangerous  pleasures  of  human  intercourse.  He  is  an 
insipid,  dry,  firm,  white-fleshed  fish,  who  is  called 
'^  royal"  on  account  of  his  rarity.  We  should  guess  him 
to  be  indigestible,  but  his  price  mostly  precludes  the 
experiment  A  nice  cut  of  sturgeon  is  considered  a  fine 
thing  to  produce  on  Good  Friday  or  other  grand  fish- 
day;  not  that  his  appearance  in  the  world  is  at  all 
restricted  to  times  of  humiliation  and  fisisting. 

It  is  curious  how  strangely  things  hang  together  in 
that  marvellous  storehouse,  the  human  memory.  The 
word  "  sturgeon"  conjures  up,  with  the  Doctor,  a  whole 
train  of  recollections.  Once  upon  a  night,  he  was 
present  at  a  ball  given  by  the  Torlonias,  Ducal  Bankers, 


FISH.  247 

in  their  palace,  at  Borne.  There  was  a  supper,  at  which 
the  dish  of  honour  was  small  sturgeon  floating  in  pairs 
in  a  mass  of  clear  jelly.  The  Doctor  did  not  taste 
sturgeon  there.  As  nobody  carved  them,  he  did  not 
presume  to  do  so ;  which  may  be  one  reason  for  his  re- 
membering them  so  well.  But  the  word  sturgeon  brings 
the  whole  scene  back, — ^the  marble  staircase,  lined  with 
guards;  the  antichamber,  where  cardinals  sat  playing 
cards  (etiquette  preventing  their  penetrating  further  into 
the  vanities  of  this  wicked  world)  ;  the  glittering  gallery, 
which  served  for  the  ball-room ;  and,  contrasted  to  it, 
the  quiet  boudoir  in  which  you  could  read  the  Timesy  or 
take  a  nap— with  multitudes  of  other  things,  which  must 
not  make  us  forget  our  Kitchen. 

Boast  Sturgeon.  Marinade  for  several  hours  a  good 
piece  of  sturgeon,  after  careful  cleaning.  Roast  it  on  a 
spit,  basting  well  with  a  lump  of  butter  put  into  the  latch- 
pan  with  a  little  of  the  marinade.  Serve  with  any  kind 
of  piquant  or  other  sauce.  Boast  Sturgeon  may  have 
the  bone  removed,  and  then  be  stuffed  with  veal  stuffing. 

Sturgeon^  Economical^  or  rather  say  Smuggled  Stur^ 
fjeovu  Take  a  piece  of  sturgeon,  about  two  pounds  in 
weight,  and,  on  sending  a  piece  of  meat  to  the  baker^s 
on  a  stand  in  a  dish,  put  the  sturgeon  under  it,  with  a 
little  water,  salt,  pepper,  &c. ;  a  little  chopped  shallot 
may  be  used ;  you  can  also  put  potatoes  round  it  Peas, 
if  in  season,  are  a  good  accompaniment,  with  melted 
butter. — Alexis  Soger. 

Sturgeon  a  la  Provenfole.  The  Proven9als  hold 
sturgeon  to  be  a  well-flavoured  fish ;  but  he  must  be 


248  FISH. 

young  and  tender  to  be  easy  of  digestion.  Weak  and 
convalescent  stomachs  are  therefore  wise  in  eschewing 
him  done  this  way. 

Cut  a  slice  of  sturgeon  three  or  four  inches  thick ; 
lard  it  throughout  its  thickness  with  strips  of  eel,  or 
bacon,  or  both.  Brown  it  in  butter  in  a  saucepan,  with 
parsley  and  sweet  herbs  chopped  fine,  a  clove  of  garlic, 
pepper  and  salt.  Cover  it  with  two  or  three  bay-leaves, 
and  cook  it  slowly  over  a  gentle  fire  of  hot  ashes,  with 
the  lid  well  closed. 

The  Turbot  has  been  honoured  with  several  flattering 
epithets,  such  as  the  Pontifical  Fish,  the  Pheasant  of 
the  Sea,  the  King  of  Lent.  No  terms  of  admiration  can 
exceed  its  merits,  for  it  is  as  delicious  as  handsome,  and 
as  wholesome  as  delicious.  It,  and  soles,  are  probably 
the  fish  of  which  it  takes  the  longest  to  tire. 

There  is  really  only  one  English  way  of  dressing 
turbot,  namely,  plain  boiling  in  salt-and-water ;  on  the 
Continent,  they  generally  use  court-bouillon,  as  more 
worthy  of  its  dignity.  But  however  dressed,  the  noble 
fish  must  appear  (the  first  time)  in  all  his  majestic 
amplitude.  Divided,  cooked  in  portions,  he  ceases  to  do 
honour  to  a  well-served  table.  He  must  rigorously  be 
presented  whole.  Surrounded  by  a  bright-green  belt  of 
parsley,  accompanied  by  a  tureen  of  melted  butter,  and 
carved  with  a  golden  trowel  (or  at  least  silver-gilt),  he 
acknowledges  no  fishy  superior. 

One  of  Brillat  Savarin^s  best  stories  relates  to  the 
duty  of  serving  Turbot  entire. 

Discord,  he  tells  us,  one  day  tried  to  intrude  himself 


FISH.  249 

into  one  of  the  most  united  households  in  the  French 
capital.  It  happened  on  a  Saturday,  the  Jewish  Sabbath ; 
the  subject  was  the  cooking  of  a  turbot ;  the  scene,  a 
country  house ;  and  the  site  of  the  country  house,  Yille- 
crdne. 

This  fish,  said  to  have  been  kidnapped  from  a  more 
glorious  destiny,  was  to  be  served  next  day  at  a  meeting 
of  worthy  people,  of  whom  I  (B.  S.)  was  one.  It  was 
as  fresh,  fat,  and  bright-complexioned  as  the  most 
fastidious  epicure  could  wish;  but  its  dimensions  so 
completely  exceeded  every  disposable  utensil  that  nobody 
knew  what  to  do  with  it. 

"  Very  well,  then ;  we  must  cut  it  in  halves,"  said 
the  husband* 

"  Would  you  really  have  the  heart  to  offer  such  an 
insult  to  the  unoffending  creature?"  rejoined  the  wife. 

"  What  must  be,  must,  my  love,  since  there  is  no 
possibility  of  managing  it  otherwise.  Come,  somebody 
bring  me  the  cleaver ;  the  operation  won't  take  long." 

"  Wait  a  while,  mj  dear;  we  have  pleniy  of  time 
before  us.  Besides,  you  know,  our  cousin  is  coming ; 
he's  a  perfect  Professor  of  Cookery,  and  he'll  be  sure  to 
help  us  out  of  the  difficulty." 

"  He  a  Professor  I  he  get  us  out  of  the  difficuliy ! 
Fiddlededce  I" 

An  accurate  report  assures  us  that  the  speaker  had 
no  great  confidence  in  the  Professor;  and  yet  the 
Professor  was — me  I    A  pretty  notion  ! 

The  matter  was  on  the  point  of  being  settled  as 
Alexander  managed  the  Gordian  knot,  when  I  arrived 


250  FISH. 

exactly  at  the  nick  of  time,  sniffing  the  wind,  with  the 
appetite  consequent  on  travelling  when  it  is  seven  in 
the  evening,  and  when  the  fragrance  of  a  good  dinner 
salates  the  smell  and  solicits  the  taste. 

On  entering,  I  in  vain  attempted  to  paj  the  usual 
compliments ;  my  friends  did  not  answer,  because  they 
did  not  hear  me.  The  question  which  absorbed  their 
whole  attention  was  soon  explained  nearly  in  a  duett ; 
after  which,  both  the  parties  held  their  peace,  as  if  by 
colnmon  consent;  tlie  lady  looking  at  me  with  eyes 
which  seemed  to  say,  ^^  I  expect  he'll  get  us  out  of  the 
mess !"  the  gentleman,  on  the  contrary,  tossing  his  head 
contemptuously,  in  the  certainty  that  I  could  be  of  no 
assistance,  while  his  hand  still  clutched  the  terrible  cleaver 
which  had  been  brought  to  him  at  his  request  These 
opposite  shades  of  feeling  disappeared,  to  give  place  to 
marks  of  intense  curiosity,  when,  with  a  grave  and  ora- 
cular voice,  I  pronounced  the  solemn  words,  "  Theturbot 
slvall  be  left  whole  until  its  official  presentation." 

I  was  sure  of  not  compromising  myself,  because  it 
struck  me  that  I  might  have  it  cooked  in  the  oven ;  but 
as  that  method  presented  several  difficulties,  I  did  not 
yet  explain  my  scheme,  but  proceeded  in  silence  to  the 
kitchen;  I  opening  the  procession  as  high-priest,  the 
married  couple  serving  for  acolytes,  the  family  repre- 
senting the  body  of  the  faithful,  and  the  cook  in  full  figg 
bringing  up  the  rear. 

The  two  first  offices  we  inspected  presented  nothing 
favourable  to  my  views;  but,  on  searching  the  wash- 
house,  a  copper  which,  though  small,  was  most  con- 


FISH,  25X 

veniently  fixed  over  its  fireplace,  at  once  suggested  the 
use  I  could  make  of  it  Turning  to  mj  suite,  I  said, 
with  that  accent  of  faith  which  removes  mountains, 
<^  Make  your  minds  easy ;  calm  your  spirits.  The 
turbot  shall  be  cooked  whole.  It  shall  be  cooked  by 
steam,  and  that  directly.'* 

In  fact,  although  it  was  quite  time  to  dine,  I  imme- 
diately set  every  body  to  work.  While  some  of  them 
were  lighting  the  copper-fire,  I  cut  out  of  a  fifty-bottle 
hamper  a  hurdle  of  precisely  the  same  dimensions  as  the 
giant  fish.  On  this  hurdle  I  made  them  lay  a  stratum 
of  highly  flavoured  bulbs  and  herbs,  on  which  our  marine 
colossus  was  extended,  after  being  well  washed,  dried, 
and  salted.  A  second  layer  of  the  same  seasoning  was 
spread  over  his  back.  We  then  placed  the  hurdle,  with 
its  precious  burden,  over  the  copper  half  full  of  water, 
covering  the  whole  with  an  inverted  wash-tub,  round 
which  we  heaped  a  quantity  of  dry  sand  to  prevent  the 
steam  from  escaping  too  easUy.  The  copper  soon  began 
to  boil ;  the  steam  filled  tlie  whole  capacity  of  the  tub ; 
which  being  removed  at  the  end  of  half  an  hour,  the 
hurdle  was  taken  from  the  top  of^the  copper,  with  the 
turbot  cooked  to  a  nicety,  as  white  as  milk,  ai^d  of  the 
most  amiable  aspect. 

The  operation  complete,  we  rushed  to  table  with 
appetites  sharpened  by  delay,  labour,  and  success ;  so 
that  it  took  Us  a  considerable  space  of  time  to  reach  the 
happy  moment  indicated  by  Homer  when  the  abundance 
and  variety  of  meats  has  at  length  put  hunger  to  the 
chase. 


252  FISH. 

Next  day,  at  dinner,  the  turbot  was  submitted  to  the 
judgment  of  its  honourable  consumers;  its  good  looks 
drew  forth  exclamations  of  delight.  Then  the  master  of 
the  house  related  with  liis  own  lips  the  unhoped-for 
manner  in  which  it  had  been  cooked ;  and  I  was  praised 
not  only  for  the  readiness  of  the  invention,  but  still  more 
for  its  results ;  for,  after  conscientious  degustation,  it  was 
unanimously  resolved  that  the  fish,  prepared  in  this  way, 
was  incomparably  better  than  if  it  had  been  boiled  in  an 
ordinary  turbot-kettie.* 

This  verdict  took  nobody  by  surprise ;  because,  never 
having  been  immersed  in  boiling  water,  it  had  lost  none 
of  its  principles,  while,  on  the  other  hand,  it  had  im- 
bibed all  the  aroma  of  the  seasoning. 

While  my  ears  were  being  filled  to  repletion  with  the 
compliments  showered  upon  me  in  all  directions,  my 
eyes  sought  still  more  sincere  tokens  of  approval  by  in- 
specting the  countenance  of  each  of  the  guests.  I  re- 
marked, with  secret  satisfaction,  that  General  Labassee 
was  so  delighted  that  he  smiled  at  every  morsel  that 
entered  his  mouth ;  that  the  Cure  held  his  neck  stretched 
out  and  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  ceiling  in  sign  of  ecstasy; 
and  that  of  two  Academicians,  2A  gourmand  as  clever,  who 
were  present,  the  first,  M.  Auger,  had  as  sparkling  eyes 
and  as  radiant  a  countenance  as  an  author  whose  play 
tlie  public  are  applauding ;  while  the  second,  M.  Yille- 

*  Bj  an  erer-to-be-reg^tted  omission,  B.  S.  has  forgotten  to  tell 
us  whether  this  historical  torbot  was  eaten  cM^  or  wanned  up  again 
in  steam  ;  likewise,  bj  what  sauce  it  was  attended.  As  all  parties 
present  hare  probablj  bj  this  time  ceased  to  eat,  the  actual  truth  must 
ever  remain  among  the  doubtful  points  of  gastronomic  lore. 


FISH.  253 

main,  held  hLs  head  on  one  side,  with  his  ohin  directed 
towards  the  west,  in  the  attitude  of  a  person  who  is 
listening  attentively. 

All  which  is  good  to  remember ;  because  there  are 
few  countiy  houses  in  which  jou  cannot  find  the  re- 
quisites for  improvising  the  apparatus  which  I  employed 
on  this  occasion,  and  to  which  recourse  can  always  be  had 
whenever  there  is  occajsion  to  cook  any  thing  arriving 
unexpectedly,  and  exceeding  the  ordinary  dimensions  of 
its  kind.  Nevertheless,  I  should  not  have  troubled  my 
readers  with  the  history  of  this  mighty  adventure,  unless 
I  had  thought  it  applicable  to  purposes  of  general  utility. 

Turbotj  Plain'Boiled.  It  is  a  question  of  taste  whe- 
ther to  cook  it  immediately  it  comes  out  of  the  water, 
or  to  keep  it  a  couple  of  days,  salting  it  at  least  one 
night.  Most  people  prefer  it  in  the  latter  condition; 
the  flesh  is  firmer,  and  it  has  acquired  more  flavour.  On 
the  other  hand,  the  sooner  it  is  cooked  after  taking  leave 
of  the  sea,  the  lighter  and  more  digestible  it  is. 

Put  your  turbot  in  a  fish-kettle  three-quarters  full  of 
cold  water,  into  which  you  have  thrown  a  handful  of  salt. 
While  boiling  up,  remove  the  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises* 
As  soon  as  it  really  boils,  draw  the  kettle  partially  off  the 
fire,  allowing  it  only  to  simmer  gently.  The  size  of  the 
fish  must  regulate  the  time  it  should  remain  in  the 
water  after  boiling.  A  moderate-sized  turbot  will  be 
done  in  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes ;  a  small  one  in 
twenty:  while  it  must  be  a  very  large  turbot  indeed 
which  takes  a  whole  hour  to  cook. 

Qive  a  final  careful  skimming  before  lifting  the  fish 


254  FISH. 

on  its  strainer  out  of  the  water.  Let  it  drain  a  few 
minntes  over  the  kettle;  have  ready  the  dish  with  a 
napkin  on  it,  and  adroitly  let  the  fish  slide  on  to  its  snowy 
bed.  Of  course,  the  fish  will  have  been  laid  on  the 
strainer  with  the  side  uppermost  which  is  wished  to  be  so 
when  served. 

And  here  arises  a  knotty  question  of  taste,  custom, 
and  comparative  anatomy.  Which  is  the  proper  side  to 
dish  uppermost  of  Turbot  and  its  poor  relation  Brill  ? 
For  the  two  sides  of  real  flat-fish  are  by  no  means  alike, 
or  even  similar.  With  us,  the  white  side  is  presented  to 
view,  as  a  rule  that  has  come  down  to  us  from  time 
immemorial.  But  the  Doctor  has  heard  it  stoutly 
maintained,  and  seen  it  carried  out  in  practice,  that  the 
hrovm  side  ought  to  lie  uppermost,  so  retaining  the  fish's 
natural  position  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea. 

The  conformation  of  Plat-Fish  is  very  curious* 
Cuvier  says  that  this  particular  group  is  one  of  the  most 
peculiar  in  the  whole  series  of  vertebrated  animals.  They 
are  called  Pleuronectidse,  firom  two  Greek  words  which 
signify  that  they  swim  upon  their  sidesy  which  they  really 
do;  so  much  so,  that,  but  for  a  wonderful  adaptation  of 
structure,  they  would  have  one  eye  buried  in  the  mud  or 
sand  whenever  they  lurk  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  as  is 
their  habitual  woni  To  obviate  this  inconvenience^ 
their  spine  is  distorted,  taking,  near  the  head,  a  sudden 
twist  on  one  side,  which  causes  both  the  eyes  to  look 
upwards.  This  distortion  is  made  manifest  to  the  most 
careless  observer  by  the  form  and  position  of  the  mouth, 
the  inequality  of  the  two  sides  of  the  head,*  and  by  the 


FISH.  255 

eyes  being  placed  one  higher  than  the  other,  and  often 
unequal  in  size.  Soles  are  caught,  not  so  very  rarely, 
which  have  what  ought  to  be  the  white  side  either  par- 
tially or  entirely  brown ;  as  if  reverting  to  some  ancestral 
type  of  thin-bodied  fish^  wliich  had  not  then  learned  to 
swim  on  its  side. 

Flat-Fish,  although  they  love  to  lie  at  the  bottom, 
covering  their  whole  person  (except  their  eyes  and 
mouth)  with  sand,  can  dart  through  the  water  with  ex- 
traordinary swiftness,  cutting  through  it  like  a  knife. 
These  motions,  as  well  as  more  leisurely  paddlings 
about,  are  performed  by  the  muscles,  not  of  their  back, 
but  of  their  upper  sidey  which,  consequently,  acquire 
fuller  development  by  the  exercise.  The  brown  side  of 
a  turbot  or  briU  is  considerably  thicker  than  the  white 
side;  there  is  more  meat  on  it;  it  presents  a  larger 
number  of  cuts;  and  therefore,  say  the  Browneans,  it 
should  be  first  presented  to  the  carver,  as  offering  to 
him  fuller  resources.  Those  who  prefer  the  white  side^ 
to  eat  the  skin  and  the  fin,  can  wait,  or  ask  for  it. 

True,  the  white  side  is  pleasing  in  its  creamy  purity^ 
but  the  brown  one  contrasts  well  with  the  napkin  on 
which  it  takes  its  final  repose,  and  it  removes  all  tempta- 
tion to  decorate  it  with  dabs  of  cayenne  pepper,  in  imi- 
tation of  the  spots  of  the  vulgar  plaice — which  dabbing 
with  cayenne  is  a  reprehensible  folly,  worse  than  gilding 
refined  gold  or  painting  the  lily.  To  be  impartial,  at 
grand  fish-dinners,  where  turbot  is  served  top  and  bot- 
tom, let  one  appear  with  the  brown  side,  the  other  witli 
the  white  side,  uppermost 


256  FISH. 

Tarbot  may  properly  be  acoompanied  by  white  sauce^ 
relieved  by  a  suspicion  of  salfc  and  horse-radish ;  plain 
melted  butter,  smooth  and  good  of  the  butter ;  Dutch 
sauce;  delicate  anchovy  sauce;  shrimp  sauce,  not  too 
strong  of  the  shrimps ;  oyster  sauce  (more  in  harmony 
with  cod)  ;  lobster  sauce,  or  mock-lobster  sauce. 

Warmed-up  TurboL  As  soon  as  the  fish  is  removed 
from  table,  take  all  the  remaining  flesh  and  white  skin 
from  the  bone,  and  cut  it  up  into  handsome  pieces. 
Next  day,  it  may  be  warmed  up  in  any  of  the  above 
sauces ;  although,  perhaps,  the  most  delicate  way  of  re- 
dressing it  is  to  let  it  take  a  warm  bath  in  Bechamel, 
and  reappear  smothered  in  that  preparation — so  called 
after  its  inventor,  the  Marquis  de  Bechamel,  who  has 
achieved  immoitality  by  means  of  that  sauce. 

Warmed-up  turbot,  especially  if  not  overdone,  may 
be  varied  in  appearance  by  being  piled  in  a  heap  in  its 
dish,  sprinkling  bread-crumbs  over  it,  and  setting  it 
under  a  salamander.  This  way  is  especially  appropriate 
if  a  few  oysters,  or  remnants  of  lobster,  have  been 
warmed  up  with  it 

Cold  Turboty  with  oil  and  vinegar  and  a  dash  of 
mustard,  is  so  like  lobster  (than  which  it  is  much  more 
digestible),  that,  if  you  shut  your  eyes,  you  will  hardly 
be  able  to  tell  the  difference. 

Mayonnaise  of  Cold  Turbot  is  inferior  only  to  Mayon- 
naise of  Lobster. 

Brilly  called  by  Theodore  Hook  the  Workhouse  Turbot, 
is  6e^^'ed  in  every  way  exactly  like  turbot  Being  less 
thick,  as  well  as  less  firm,  it  takes  a  shorter  time  to  cook. 


FISH.  257 

Quite  SmaU  Turbat  and  Brilly  of  the  size  of  ordinary 
soles,  are  very  delicate  and  presentable  fried.  They 
also  make  very  pretty  attendants  to  group  around  their 
boiled  full-grown  brethren. 

Plaice^  far  more  than  the  respectable  Brill,  deserves 
the  scornful  title  of"  workhouse  turbot" — as  a  substitute 
for  which  it  is  served,  in  cheap,  fixed-priced  Bestau- 
rants,  to  Parisian  cocknies.  Poor  things  1  they  know 
no  better!  Who  should  tell  them  that  it  is  not  the 
turbot's  habit  to  make  a  display  of  orange  spots  ?  When 
they  penetrate,  by  excursion -train,  to  Boulogne  or 
Dieppe,  they  are  astonished  to  find  that  the  sea  is  salt, 
and  take  home  bottlesful,  to  prove  the  fact  to  their 
untravelled  firiends. 

The  flesh  of  Plaice  is  apt  to  be  watery,  insipid,  and 
soft;  the  best  specimens,  nevertheless,  taken  in  full 
season  and  nicely  prepared,  are  delicate,  white-fleshed, 
easy  of  digestion,  and  doubtless  nutritious. 

Broiled  Plaice j — ^the  best  way  of  cooking  it.  Eub 
your  fish  well  with  salt  on  both  sides,  and  hang  it  up  in 
a  current  of  cold,  dry  air  for  four-and-twenty  or  six- 
and-thirty  hours.  For  the  convenience  of  broiling,  you 
may  without  scruple  cut  it  into  quarters,  sixths,  or 
eighths.     Serve  with  oiled  butter  and  lemon-juice. 

Plaice  au  Gratiuy  done  in  the  Oven,  Salt  and  dry 
your  fish  as  before.  Take  a  shallow  oval  dish  (of  tin  or 
earthenware  that  will  stand  the  fire),  just  big  enough  to 
hold  the  fisL  Grease  the  bottom  well  with  butter  or 
the  fat  of  any  gravy  you  have  left,  and  place  a  few  small 
lumps  of  it  here  and  there,  sufficient  to  keep  the  fish  from 

s 


258  FISH. 

sticking.  Strew  over  the  bottom  a  thin  layer  of  bread- 
crombs  and  chopped  parsley.  Lay  your  fish  in,  and 
cover  it  slightly  with  bread-crumbs  mixed  with  minced 
sweet  herbs,  parsley  predominating.  Over  this  put  a 
few  lumps  of  butter,  or  of  beef  or  veal  fat  If  you  have 
several  fish,  you  may  lay  them  one  above  the  other,  put- 
ting a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  &c.  between  each;  but 
they  cook  better  singly,  because  more  equally. 

Set  the  fish  in  the  oven  of  your  cooking-stove ;  baste 
it  fi*om  time  to  time  with  the  melted  butter  and  gravy 
which  comes  firom  it  When  baked  enough,  the  bread- 
crumbs should  be  nicely  browned. 

Fish,  so  cooked,  should  be  served  in  the  same  dish 
in  which  they  were  done,  set  into  another  belonging  to 
the  dinner-service;  thus  avoiding  both  cooling  and 
breaking.  Their  own  gravy  will  serve  for  sauce,  which 
may  be  relieved  by  lemon-juice  or  a  dash  of  vinegar. 

Large  SoUsj  Lemon  SoleSy  and  Flounders^  in  this 
way,  au  gratin^  are  excellent,  and  much  more  easy  to 
cook  than  by  fiying. 

Plaice^  Boiledj  is  mostly  Plaice  spoiled,  except  for 
those  who  are  fond  of  fish-pap. 

TJie  Halibict  is  a  monster  flat-fish,  which  often  attains 
enormous  weights.  Its  flesh  is  white,  dry,  and  some- 
what insipid ;  but  it  is  light  and  digestible,  and  often 
liked  by  invalids.  It  is  not  usual  to  serve  this  fish  whole, 
but  to  cut  it  across  in  slices,  steaks,  collops,  or  cutlets, 
which  may  be  either  boiled  (delicate,  but  rather  poor), 
fried,  or  dressed  ci  la  PravenfdUy  like  Sturgeon  (p.  247). 
Slices  from  the  middle  of  Halibut  may  be  divided  and 


_J 


FISH.  259 

bent  into  convenient-sized  cutlets,  by  cutting  them  into 
equal  halves  directly  through  the  backbone.  In  this  way 
they  are  easier  to  fry,  to  arrange  on  the  dish,  and  to  help 
at  table.  The  same  mode  of  division  may  be  applied  to 
slices  from  the  thick  parts  of  other  large  fish  (such  as 
cod  and  salmon),  which  it  is  customary  to  dress  in 
steaks.  Jews  have  the  reputation  of  cooking  Halibut 
better  than  Christians,  because  they  use  oil,  and  plenty 
of  it. 

Stewed  Halibut  is  less  tasteless  than  the  above.  The 
slices  offish  may  be  first  half-&ied  on  both  sides,  and 
then  treated  like  Stewed  Tench  (p.  236) ;  but  in  this  way 
you  conceal  the  remarkable  whiteness  of  the  flesh,  which 
constitutes  its  chief  attraction  for  many  ladies  and  deli- 
cate persons.  For  a  fish  curry,  halibut  answers  very 
tolerably. 

Flat-fish  Pie.  Parboil  any  solid-fleshed  Plat-Fish  (as 
soles,  small  turbot,  John  dory,  or  brill),  until  you  can 
raise  the  flesh  from  the  bones.  The  less  it  is  done,  the 
better.  The  scales  must  have  been  carefully  scraped 
from  the  white  side,  as  the  rohite  skin  is  to  be  left  on  and 
eaten.  Cut  the  parboiled  fish-meats  into  squares  or 
fillets,  and  sot  them  aside  to  cool.  Sprinkle  them  with 
a  sTnall  quantity  of  mixed  pepper,  flour,  salt,  and  the 
minutest  dust  of  pounded  lump  sugar. 

Invert  in  the  middle  of  your  pie-dish  a  cupful  of  strong 
savoury  jelly.  At  the  bottom,  put  a  layer  of  fish-fillets ; 
then  a  layer  of  oysters,  over  which  grate  a  little  nutmeg ; 
then  more  fish,  and  then  more  oysters  seasoned  with 
nutmeg ;  and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is  full.     You  may  in- 


260  FIBH. 

sert  here  and  there  hard  eggs  in  qoarters,  batton  mush- 
rooms, peeled  olires,  bits  of  anchovy,  a  sprinkling  of 
capers,  a  few  picked  shrimps,  bits  of  lobster  (either  flesh 
or  coral),  and  any  other  suitable  garnish  which  will 
render  the  contents  of  the  pie  more  attractive  and  inter- 
esting. Pour  over  all  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  (settled 
and  strained),  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  a  breakfast-cup- 
ful of  strong  veal  broth,  well  seasoned  to  taste.  Cover 
the  whole  with  very  light  paste,  and  bake.  When  the 
crust  is  done,  the  fish  will  be  so  likewise. 

This  pie  (which  need  not  be  so  high-seasoned  as  eel- 
pie)  may  be  eaten  either  hot  or  cold. 

Pies  may  be  made  of  other  kinds  offish ;  only,  if  dif- 
ferent  sorts  are  used,  they  should  be  kinds  which  require 
the  same  amount  of  cooking.  Cod  and  John  dory,  for 
instance,  take  twice  as  long  to  do  as  whiting  and 
flounder. 

Water  Sauchy,  Trim  very  neatly,  and  cut  cross-wise 
in  pieces,  flounders  principally,  with  which  may  be 
mixed  soles,  perch,  jack,  tench,  or  eels,  also  in  neat  pieces. 
Throw  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  more  water  than 
will  cover  them,  with  a  handful  of  chopped  parsley, 
peppercorns,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  pounded  sugar.  Sim- 
mer till  the  fish  is  tender. 

Boil  parsley-leaves  separately  to  a  bright  green ;  lay 
them  at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish,  and  on  this  bed  deposit 
with  a  spoon  the  pieces  of  fish.  Boil  up  the  liquor  a 
minute  or  two  longer,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Ac- 
company with  a  plate  of  brown  bread  and  butter. 

The  souchy  may  bo  made  witli  delicate  fish-broth; 


1 

J 


FISH.  261 

or  a  puree  (strained)  of  fish  may  be  boiled  down  for  the 
purpose. 

Some  Dutch  cooks  add  fine-chopped  onions  and 
sorrel  at  the  same  time  with  the  parsley.  The  sorrel  is 
a  great  improvement 

Soles^  of  all  Flat-Fish^  are  certainly  the  most  useful ; 
in  season  all  the  year  round,  moderate  in  price,  sightly 
on  the  table,  pleasant  to  the  palate,  and  giving  little 
trouble  to  the  digestive  powers.  In  cleaning  soles,  the 
white  skin  is  always  left  on,  carefully  scraping  off  the 
scales ;  the  brown  skin  is  usually  stripped  off,  leaving  the 
flesh  naked.  But  in  some  seaport  towns,  as  Dunkirk  in 
France,  the  brown  skin,  carefully  scaled,  is  lefl  on,  to 
retain  the  juices  of  the  fish  while  cooking.  Moreover, 
the  brown  skin  of  the  sole  contains  so  much  gelatine  as 
to  be  used  by  brewers  for  fining  their  beer.  Its  re- 
moval, therefore,  must  necessarily  diminish  the  amount 
of  nutriment  to  be  derived  from  the  fish.  The  reader 
can  one  day  request  her  cook  to  make  the  experiment  of 
leaving  it  on. 

Fried  Soles^  after  thorough  drying  by  pressing  be- 
tween the  folds  of  a  napkin,  may  be  either  rubbed  in 
flour,  or  egged  and  bread-crumbed,  or  dipped  in  batter. 
Let  the  fat  in  which  they  are  fried  be  Iwt  and  deep.  It 
is  absurd,  because  a  sole  is  thin,  to  attempt  to  fry  it  in 
scarcely  enough  fat  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  pan. 
Fry  crisp,  to  a  nice  light  brown ;  serve  on  a  napkin. 
Well-fried  soles  hardly  require  any  sauce ;  nevertheless, 
you  may  send  up  with  them  a  little  anchovy  or  shrimp 
sauce. 


262  nsH. 

Boiled  Solesy  especiallj  when  large,  are  excellent 
In  this  case,  the  advantage  of  leaving  the  brown  skin  on 
will  be  evident.  A  boiled  sole  is  often  one  of  the  first 
light  solids  which  can  be  set  before  an  invalid,  while  for 
healthy  persons  it  is  ever  a  delicate  and  presentable 
dish. 

Throw  the  soles  into  boiling  salt-and- water.  They 
will  take  from  five  to  ten  minutes,  according  to  size. 
Serve  on  a  napkin  garnished  with  green  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Boiled  soles  do  require  sauce :  for  convalescents,  oiled 
butter  or  melted  butter  are  the  simplest;  for  others^ 
any  sauce  may  be  sent  up  wliich  is  used  for  turbot 

Some  people  aver  that  large  soles  boiled  are  very 
nearly  as  good  as  turbot ;  which  does  not  say  much  for 
their  faculty  of  taste.  Boiled  sole,  large  or  small,  has 
the  flavour,  and  its  flesh  has  the  peculiar  substance,  of 
soley  and  not  of  turbot.  That  must  be  a  very  dull  moutli 
which  could  possibly  mistake  the  one  for  the  other. 
Which  is  the  better  of  the  two  is  a  matter  of  opinion ; 
but  a  sole  is  a  sole,  and  a  turbot  a  turbot 

Sole  Normande — Normandy  Sole.  More  for  show 
than  for  use.  Take  one  or  more  fine  soles ;  clean  and 
wash  them  carefully.  Put  a  few  lumps  of  butter  in  an 
oblong  dish  that  will  stand  the  fire.  On  these  lay  your 
soles,  with  sweet  herbs,  shallots,  and  mushrooms,  all 
chopped  fine,  pepper  and  salt,  mixed  spices,  and  a 
tumbler  of  white  wine  and  water.  Add  to  this  a  well- 
made  roux,  with  which  mix  an  equal  quantity  of  stock. 
Garnish  your  dish,  moreover,  with  a  dozen  large  oysters 
symmetrically   arranged,    as    many    mussels    (cooked 


FISH.  263 

enough  to  remove  them  from  the  shell),  and  a  few  of 
any  small  fish  (not  flat),  as  smelts  or  gudgeons,  which 
you  have  at  hand,  well  smeared  with  butter.  Cover  all 
this  with  oiled  paper,  and  set  it  in  the  oven  to  cook. 

While  it  is  doing,  warm  up  some  mushrooms  in  stock 
or  gravy,  and  fry  some  fanciftdly  cut  slices  of  bread. 
When  done,  arrange  the  mushrooms  and  fried  bread 
around  the  dish,  garnish  with  a  few  crawfish  or  prawns, 
and  serve. 

The  best  Fillets  of  Sole  are  possibly  those  which  are 
removed  from  the  fish  as  it  lies,  ready  cooked,  upon  your 
plate.  Such,  too,  appears  to  be  the  opinion  of  the 
Almanack  des  Gourmands^  which  states  that  Soles  have 
the  advantage  of  being  allowed  to  be  cut  up  into  fillets, 
at  table;  there,  sprinkled  with  good  lemon-juice  and  a 
spoonful  of  virgin  oil,  they  acquire,  both  for  the  palate 
and  the  stomach,  most  estimable  qualities. 

Those  who  will  have  real  fillets  of  sole  to  play  with, 
must  first  remove  them  from  the  uncooked  fish.  ^^  Scale 
the  soles,  and  wash  them,"  Ude  directs,  "but  do  not 
empty  them.  Take  up  the  fillets,  by  running  your  knife 
first  between  the  bone  and  the  flesh,  then  between  the 
brown  skin  and  the  fillet.  By  leaning  pretty  hard  on 
the  table,  they  will  come  ofi^  very  neatly.  You  may 
leave  the  skin  on  tlie  white  side  of  the  soles,  provided 
you  scrape  it  well.     Cut  them  in  two." 

There  are  the  fillets,  then ;  what  to  do  with  them  is 
a  point  about  which  few  cooks  are  agreed.  They  belong 
to  the  category  of  fancy  articles.  They  may  be  rolled 
up  lengthwise,  stuck  through  with  a  wooden  skewer, 


264  FISH. 

cooked,  and  served,  curled,  with  the  skewer  removed ; 
or  they  may  be  served  still  sticking,  curled,  two  or  three 
on  a  silver  skewer ;  or  they  may  be  baked,  rolled  up  by 
twos  and  threes,  in  oiled  paper ;  or  they  may  be  sauted 
flat,  that  is,  curling  all  sorts  of  ways.  They  may  be 
boiled,  fried,  or  baked;  they  may  have  sharp  sauce, 
smooth  cream  sauce,  or  rich  brown  gravy  sauce. 

Fillets  of  Sole  a  la  Horly.  Pickle  the  fillets  for  an 
hour  in  a  marinade  of  lemon-juice,  chopped  parsley, 
sliced  onions,  pepper  and  salt  Drain  them,  flour  and 
fry  them,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Fillets  of  Sole  a  VAurore.  Take  up  the  fillets  of 
four  soles ;  skin  them  on  both  sides. 

Have  ready  forcemeat,  as  for  quenelles,  made  of 
whitings  (indispensable ;  the  flesh  of  soles  not  mixing 
with  any  other  ingredient),  with  the  spawn  of  lobsters 
put  in,  to  make  it  look  red.  Spread  this  forcemeat 
over  the  inside  of  each  fillet,  and  roll  them  up.  Next 
skewer  them  with  silver  skewers,  three  to  each  skewer ; 
equalise  them  with  your  knife,  dust  a  little  pepper  and 
salt  over  them.  The  forcemeat  should  have  been  sea- 
soned rather  high.  Lay  the  skewered  fillets  in  a  baking- 
pan,  cover  them  with  layers  of  bacon,  and  bake  them. 

When  they  are  done,  take  out  the  skewers,  pare  the 
forcemeat  that  has  protruded,  and  dish  them  neatly. 

With  a  part  of  the  pounded  lobster's  spawn  which 
you  have  kept  aside,  mix  a  spoonful  of  white  roux,  a 
spoonftd  of  consomm^,  and  a  good  lump  of  fresh  butter. 
Pass  the  whole  through  a  tammy,  that  it  may  be  fine. 
Add  to  it  a  little  essence  of  anchovies,  with  pepper,  salt. 


PISH.  265 

and  lemon-juice.  Keep  the  sauce  very  hot,  and  cover 
the  fillets  with  it  Observe,  all  the  bacon  must  be  taken 
off. — Louis  Euatache  Ude. 

The  above  receipts  suffice  to  show  that  filleting,  how- 
ever ^^  elegant^'  a  mode  of  dressing  various  kinds  offish, 
is  neither  simple  nor  economical.  It  is  also  questionable 
whether  fish,  deprived  of  its  natural  juices,  and  saturated 
with  a  variety  of  others,  is  quite  so  light  upon  the  stomach 
as  many  persons  find  desirable. 

Fillets  of  Sole  J  in  a  Vol-^tu-  Vent  These  fillets,  re- 
moved while  hot  from  fish  that  is  left,  are  trimmed 
neady,  and  made  to  form  the  basis  of  a  Yol-au-Yent 
ragoM  (which  see). 

Fillets  of  Sole  J  in  a  Mat/onnaise.  The  same,  arranged 
with  Mayonnaise  Sauce,  and  the  usual  accompaniments. 

Fillets  of  Cold  Sole  make  capital  Sandwiches. 

The  John  Dory  is  a  flat-fish  not  yet  transformed  into 
a  side-swimmer ;  he,  therefore,  swims  vertically,  and  has 
eyes  which  look  one  to  the  right,  the  other  to  the  left. 
He  is  very  voracious  in  his  habits,  and  is  found  more 
abundantly  in  the  Channel  than  in  the  other  British  Seas. 
This  partial  distribution  is,  perhaps,  the  cause  of  his  being 
a  leede  esteemed  above  his  deserts.  His  flesh  is  firm, 
white,  substantial,  requiring  more  cooking  than  that  of 
most  fish.  In  very  large  specimens,  it  is  apt  to  be  dry, 
coarse,  woolly,  thready,  and  sometimes  strong.  This 
strong,  coarse  flavour  is  derived  principally  fix)m  the  skin, 
which  renders  stewing  or  baking  it  unadvisable.  For 
the  same  reason,  long  keeping  is  inexpedient,  although 
iiie  flesh  is  all  the  better  for  not  being  eaten  quite  firesh. 


1 


266  nsH. 

John  Doiy  is  a  dish  which  cannot  be  partaken  of  (re^ 
quentlj,  soon  palling  upon  the  appetite.  A  five  or  six 
pound  fish  is  quite  large  enough  to  be  delicate.  Quite 
small  ones,  not  bigger  than  the  hand  when  cleaned  and 
divested  of  their  heads,  are  very  nice  eating  fried,  but  it 
takes  a  good  many  of  them  to  make  a  disL  Fish  a  little 
larger  than  those  lend  themselves  voiy  readily  to  broil- 
ing. 

John  Dory^  BoUedy  is  treated  in  exactly  the  same  way 
as  turbot,  and  is  accompanied  by  the  same  sauces.  In- 
deed, there  is  an  antique  pun  that,  when  fishes  marry^ 
it  will  be  John  Dory  witli  Ann  Chovy.  Dory,  however, 
requires  longer  time  to  boil  than  turbot,  being  somewhat 
deceptive  in  this  respect.  When  the  parts  near  tlie  tail 
and  round  the  edges  gape  open  and  threaten  to  fall  to 
pieces,  the  thicker  parts  in  the  middle  will  be  still  under- 
done. They  may  be  safely  allowed  time  to  do;  the 
thinner  parts  will  not  fall  to  pieces. 

Cold  John  Dory  is  very  good  soused,  or  eaten  with 
pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar.  Warming  up  again  brings  out 
its  peculiar  flavour,  which  is  not  delicate  enough  to  ob- 
tain its  admission  into  Yol-au-Yents  or  Mayonnaises. 

Cod  is  one  of  the  most  useful  and  excellent  fishes 
which  the  bounty  of  Ocean  oflers  to  us ;  and  the  big  word 
Ocean  is  purposely  employed.  Cod  difiers  much  in  its 
epicurean  merits,  though  probably  not  much  as  to  its 
wholesomeness,  according  to  depth  of  iho  waters  in  which 
it  is  taken.  A  deep-sea  cod,  from  the  German  Ocean 
or  the  North  Sea,  is  much  firmer  and  better  flavoured 
tlian  cod  caught  in  the  Channel  or  along  shallow  shores. 


FISH.  267 

And  jet  it  is  not  easy  to  distingaisli  them  by  their  outside 
appearance.  A  shallow-water  fish  may  be  in  perfect 
healthy  with  bright  eye,  hog  back,  clear  skin,  rosy  gills, 
white  flesh,  and  rigid  muscle  after  death ;  and  yet,  when 
brought  to  table,  will  turn  out  poor,  not  the  thing.  The 
fault  is  often  laid  on  the  cook ;  the  real  fault  is  in  the  fish 
itself.  London  is  supplied  both  with  first-rate  deep-sea 
cod,  and  also  with  shallow-water  flabby-fleshed  cod. 

Here,  we  can  hardly  realise  the  iull  value  of  cod  to 
the  human  race.  The  Northern  nations,  more  especially, 
manifest  both  its  abundance  and  the  store  they  set  by  it. 
In  preparing  it,  they  observe  the  utmost  economy.  No- 
thing is  allowed  to  be  wasted.  For  salting,  the  fish  is 
decapitated.  In  the  midst  of  such  plenty,  improvident 
people  would  throw  the  heads  away ;  not  so  the  North- 
Sea  fishermen.  In  the  first  place,  the  tongues — not  so 
well  known  in  England  as  they  deserve  to  be  (our  ex- 
perience being  mainly  limited  to  tlie  sound,  or  swimming- 
bladder,  which  is  taken  troixi  the  body  of  the  fish), — the 
tongues  and  their  roots  are  cut  out  and  salted  separately ; 
also  the  two  delicate  bits  of  meat  at  the  back  or  nape  of 
the  fish's  neck.     The  fins  are  dried,  to  fiimish  glue. 

From  her  dried  cod  Norway  also  makes  "  fisk  meel,'* 
fish-meal,  which  is  sold  by  Bordevich  and  Co.,  of  Lofoten, 
in  Norway,  at  less  than  tenpence  the  pound  avoirdupois. 
The  bones  and  skin  and  all  other  useless  portions,  taken 
out  before  the  grinding,  are  likewise  carefully  utilised, 
dried,  and  minced  fine  into  fish  guano,  of  whose  fertilis- 
ing effects  learned  professors  give  most  flattering  certi- 
ficates. 


268  FISH. 

The  Lofoten  fish-flour  does  not  need  unsaltuig,  bat 
only  a  steeping  in  milk  for  a  couple  of  hours.  Li  a  dry 
place  it  will  keep  a  year.  It  is  made  into  biscuits,  which 
are  an  agreeable  relish  with  a  glass  of  wine.  Li  fish* 
soups  it  is  excellent ;  as  well  as  in  others  (hare-soup,  for 
instance),  which  many  cooks  heighten  with  a  dash  of 
anchovy. 

Fish-Flour  Pudding y  for  eight  or  ten  persons. — The 
Cliristiania  Society* s  receipt  A  pint  and  a  half  of  fish- 
flour,  half  a  pint  of  potato-arrowroot,  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  cream,  and  two  ounces  of  butter.  The  fish-flour 
should  be  put  into  cold  water  in  the  afternoon  of  the  day 
before,  and  then  carefully  strained  away.  The  eggs  and 
the  cream  to  be  well  beaten  separately.  It  may  be 
either  boiled  in  a  basin,  tied  down  dose  with  a  cloth,  or 
baked  in  an  open  pie-dish. 

Cods^  Tonguesy  A.  Steep  them  in  tepid  water 
thirty-six  hours,  changing  the  water  once.  Boil  ten 
minutes,  throwing  them  into  boiling  water;  serve, 
covered  with  egg-sauce,  and  garnished  with  toast 

Coda^  Sounds  are  dressed  exactly  as  above. 

Cods'  Tonguesj  B^  When  the  cods'  tongues  have 
been  boiled,  as  in  receipt  Aj  let  them  cool.  Then  fry 
them  to  a  nice  brown,  egged  and  bread-crumbed,  or 
dipped  in  batter.  So  treated,  they  either  make  a  nice 
dish  by  themselves,  or  are  an  appropriate  garnish  both 
for  salt  and  fresh  cod  dressed  in  large  pieces. 

Salt  Cod.  Steep  it  four -and -twenty  or  six -and - 
thirty  hours,  according  to  the  degree  of  saltness  liked ; 
but  too  salt,  it  is  trying  to  the  stomach.     Boil  very 


FISH.  2G9 

slowly^  setting  on  in  cold  water  from  half  an  hour  to 
forty  minutes,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  fish. 
Serve  garnished  round  with  boiled  parsnips,  and  accom- 
panied by  egg  sauce. 

The  parsnips,  split  lengthwise  into  halves  and  quarters, 
may  be  boiled  with  the  salt  fish,  and  each  will  help  to 
correct  the  other^s  flavour.  Besides  the  parsnips  which 
are  laid  round  the  fish  on  serving,  others  may  be  mashed 
like  turnips,  seasoned  with  a  little  pepper  and  butter,  and 
sent  up  as  a  vegetable  accompaniment 

Some  of  the  American  ways  of  managing  Salt  Fish 
are  so  ingenious  and  excellent,  that  we  give  a  few  of 
their  receipts. 

Pickedr-up  Salt  Cod-Fish  (American).  This  is  an 
old-fashioned  dish  and  name,  but  none  the  less  to  be 
admired  on  that  account;  being,  with  most  persons,  when 
properly  prepared,  a  great  favourite.  Pick  up  the  fish 
in  small  particles,  separating  the  fibres  as  near  as  possible, 
the  finer  the  better.  Freshen  by  leaving  it  in  water  one 
hour ;  pour  off  the  water,  and  fill  up  with  firesh ;  bring 
it  to  a  scald,  pour  it  off,  and  put  on  the  fish  just  enough 
water  to  cover  it ;  add,  to  a  quart  of  the  soaked  fish,  a 
bit  of  butter  the  size  of  half  an  egg,  a  very  little  flour, 
and  a  dust  of  pepper.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  and  after 
taking  off  the  fish,  thicken  it  by  stirring  in  the  egg. 
Some  let  it  boil  after  the  egg  is  added;  but  if  this  is 
done,  the  egg  will  be  curdled.  Another  way  is  to  boil 
eggs,  chop  and  mix  them  in  the  gravy. — Mrs.  E.  F. 
HaskelL 

Kedgeree  (Idem).     Boil  rice;   add  any  picked -up 


270  FISH. 

fish ;  heat  It  together,  and  while'  hot  stir  into  the  mix- 
ture a  beaten  egg ;  serve  hot. 

Cod'Fish  Toast  (Idem).  Freshen  nicely  picked-up 
cod-fish,  by  laying  it  in  water  all  night ;  add,  if  you 
have  it,  sweet  cream  and  an  egg,  and  heat  it  boiling 
hot ;  pour  it  over  toast,  or  make  a  gravy  of  water  and 
butter ;  beat  up  two  or  three  eggs,  and  thicken  the  gravy 
without  allowing  it  to  curdle,  and  pour  it  over  toast. 

Cod-Fish  Hash  (Idem).  Put  in  soak  over-night  a 
teacup  of  cod-fish  picked  ap  fine.  Li  the  morning  boil 
some  potatoes  nicely,  mash  and  work  them  until  very 
light.  Put  the  fish  in  the  chopping-bowl  and  chop  it 
fine,  aft;er  which,  before  taking  it  &om  the  bowl,  mash 
and  work  it  until  as  fine  as  possible.  Work  the  potato 
in  little  by  little,  work  it  with  the  potato-pounder,  until 
five  parts  of  potato  are  thoroughly  incorporated  with  the 
fish.  This  should  be  so  perfectly  done  tliat  the  fish  can 
neither  be  seen  nor  felt  in  the  mouth  separate  firom  the 
potato.  Season  the  hash  a  little  richer  than  for  mashed 
potatoes.  Put  it  in  the  potato-kettle  and  heat  it,  con- 
stantly stirring.  Have  butter  heated  in  the  spider,  press 
the  hash  into  it  firmly,  and  cook  it  gently.  When  brown, 
turn  it  out  without  breaking,  and  set  it  in  the  oven 
until  the  coffee  is  on  the  table.  It  is  better,  however, 
to  leave  it  in  the  spider,  if  not  scorching,  until  it  is  served. 
This  is  a  very  different  dish  fi-om  that  called  by  many 
cod-fish  hash.     Always  buy  white  cod-fisL 

Cod-Fish  Balls  (Idem).  Pick  up  as  fine  as  possible 
a  teacup  of  nice  white  cod-fish.  Freshen  all  night,  or, 
if  wanted  for  any  otlier  meal  than  breakfiist,  from  the 


FISH,  271 

< 

morning ;  scald  it  once^  and  drain  off  the  water.  Put  it 
in  the  chopping-bowl^  chop  and  work  it  until  entirely 
fine ;  put  it  in  a  basin  with  water,  a  bit  of  buttef  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  two  eggs ;  beat  it  thoroughly,  and 
heat  until  it  thickens,  without  boiling.  It  should,  when 
all  is  mixed,  be  about  a  quart  Have  some  potatoes 
ready  prepared  and  nicely  mashed,  work  the  fish  and 
potatoes  thoroughly  together  as  above,  make  it  in  flat 
cakes,  and  brown  both  sides.  This  is  a  very  nice  dish, 
as  all  who  have  tried  it  allow. 

Codi  Sounds  and  Tongues  Pie.  Take  equal  quan- 
tities of  tongues  and  sounds;  steep  tliem  as  above 
directed. 

Put  into  a  stew->pan  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and 
four  ounces  of  sliced  onions.  Fry  them  of  a  nice  bright 
brown ;  then  put  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  and  stir 
in  half  a  pint  of  stock  (or  of  meager  broth,  if  the  pie  is 
for  abstinence-days).  When  smooth,  put  in  your  sounds 
and  tongues;  season  with  a  little  pepper,  a  glass  of 
white  wine,  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  and 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Let  them  stew  for  about  five 
minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  burning  and  to  combine  the 
ingredients  evenly.  Then  aiTange  the  tongues  and  sounds 
in  a  pie-dish,  intermingling  with  them  a  few  raw  oysters 
and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters.  Pour  the  sauce 
over  all,  and  cover  with  a  light  paste.  Bake  in  a  lively 
oven,  to  make  the  crust  rise  nicely.  When  it  is  done, 
the  pie  will  be  done. 

Cold  Fishy  whether  Salt  or  Fresh^  the  remains  of  what 
was  boiled  the  day  before,  makes  excellent  Fies  or  Patties ^ 


272  FISH. 

as  do  remnants  of  lobster^  eel,  fried  sole,  boiled  salmon, 
&c. 

If  intended  for  a  Pie^  take  the  skin  off  and  the  bones 
out  while  still  warm  from  table.  Arrange  your  fish  in 
the  pie-dish  in  layers,  seasoning  each  layer  with  spice 
and  salt,  until  the  dish  is  full. 

Save  a  little  of  the  liquor  that  the  fish  was  boiled  in 
set  it  on  the  fire  with  the  skin  and  bones  of  the  fish 
boil  till  you  have  extracted  all  the  goodness  out  of  them 
strain,  let  settle,  and  pour  what  is  clear  over  the  fish  in 
the  pie-dish.  Put  on  the  crust,  and  bake  as  before. 
The  same  addition  of  oysters,  shrimps,  or  hard-boiled 
eggs  may  be  made,  and  wiU  be  a  great  improvement 

If  for  Patties^  the  fish  and  its  additions  should  be 
cut  up  into  small  pieces,  and  tossed  up  in  white  sauce 
made  with  cream  or  milk,  and  delicately  seasoned  to 
taste. 

Fresh  Cod.  Supposing  you  are  in  possession  of  a 
fine  whole  cod  (which  is  often  the  most  economical  way 
of  purchasing  it),  it  will  supply  you  with  at  least  three 
handsome  dishes  to  appear  on  your  table,  without  reckon- 
ing the  service  that  may  be  got  out  of  what  is  left.  The 
three  very  substantial  and  good-looking  portions  into 
which  a  cod  may  be  cut  up  are,  the  Head  and  Shoulders  ; 
the  Middle ;  and  the  Tail  Part.  This  last  should  be  con- 
sumed first ;  cut  across  into  steaks,  and  fried.  The  other 
two  (well  rubbed  with  salt,  inside  and  out,  and  hung  up 
in  a  current  of  cool,  dry  air)  may  be,  one  and  either  of 
them,  baked  or  boiled,  reserving  the  Middle  for  the  last 
to  be  eaten. 


FISH.  273 

On  buying  a  whole  cod,  it  is  always  worth  whUe  to 
see  what  curiosities  are  contained  in  its  stomach,  which 
is  sometimes  quite  a  museum  of  deep-sea  natural-history 
specimens.  The  Cod  is  blessed  with  a  capital  appetite, 
and  in  fact  is  a  most  voracious  eater,  not  in  the  least 
particular  as  to  the  items  which  make  up  its  bill  of  fare. 
Digestibles  and  indigestibles  are  swallowed  indifferently. 
Hence  it  has  been  called  the  Ostrich  of  the  Sea.  All 
sorts  of  unaccountable  substances  find  their  way  down 
its  greedy  gullet — ^potatoes,  birds,  and  even  stones  as  big 
as  a  goose's  egg.  At  one  post-mortem  examination  of  a 
cod-fish,  the  Doctor  found  a  fine  black  puppy-dog ;  and 
the  fishmonger  who  performed  the  operation  had  taken 
the  knife  which  executed  it  out  of  the  stomach  of  another 
cod-fish. 

Warn  the  kitchen-maid  who  cleans  the  fish  not  to 
tear  out  and  throw  away  the  sound,  as  ignorant  scullions 
have  done  before  now,  and  will  probably  do  again.  The 
very  thin  black  film  of  skin  lining  the  interior  should  be 
peeled  off;  the  liver  is  to  be  set  aside,  to  boil  with  the 
portion  resented  for  boiling ;  but,  when  obtainable,  the 
best  liver  to  eat  with  Boiled  Cody  or  to  make  Liver  Sauce 
for  fish,  is  Skate  Liver. 

In  opening  the  fish,  let  great  care  be  taken  not  to 
wound  the  roe,  which  is  often  large  enough  to  make  a 
small  dish  by  itself. 

Cod*8  JRoey  BoUedy  should  be  cooked  separately  in  a 
saucepan  (even  if  it  is  to  be  served  together  with  a  portion 
of  the  fish  from  which  it  was  taken),  because  it  takes  much 
longer  cooking.     There  is  a  saying  that  cod's  roe,  over- 

T 


274  FISH* 

done,  is  poison  ;  i,  e.  it  cannot  be  over-done.     The  same 
thing  is  said,  with  less  truth,  of  mackarel. 

Cod^a  Iio€y  Fried  (when  cold,  after  boiling,  and  cut 
in  slices),  makes  a  very  nice  accompaniment  to  decorate 
a  Middle  or  a  Head  and  Shoulders. 

Few  fish  give  less  trouble  to  clean  than  Cod.  Many- 
people  prefer  it  after  a  couple  of  days*  keeping. 

Crimped  Cod  is  fish  whose  flesh  has  been  deeply- 
slashed,  the  whole  of  its  length,  at  regular  distances  of 
about  a  couple  of  inches,  while  still  alive.  This  is  done 
with  tlie  intention  of  making  the  flesh  firmer ;  crimping 
after  death  does  not  produce  the  same  efiect.  It  is  an 
unnecessary  piece  of  cruelty ;  because,  in  almost  every 
case,  the  individual  so  practised  on  is  a  deep-sea  fish^ 
who  does  not  require  it,  but  whose  flesh  is  quite  firm 
enough  without  the  operation. 

But  the  truth  is,  that  we  have  so  little  sympathy 
with  fish,  they  show  so  little  consideration  for  one  an- 
other, they  are  so  utterly  unable  to  manifest  their  sense 
of  pain  or  pleasure  by  howls  or  cries  or  in  any  other 
way  likely  to  impress  us,  that  we  are  apt  to  regard  them 
as  devoid  of  feeling — as  endowed  merely  with  a  sort  of 
sensationless  vitality  like  that  of  vegetables.  Neverthe* 
less,  some  pet  gold-fish,  standing  on  the  table  at  which, 
this  is  written,  peep  out  fi'om  their  grove  of  water-starwort 
with  looks  as  if  they  recognised  the  old  familiar  face 
which  meets  their  gaze  day  aft;er  day.  The  minnow  i» 
a  remarkably  tamable  fish. 

Mr.  McDiarmid,  giving  an  account  of  certain  fishes 
kept  in  a  pond  of  sea-water,  says  that  some  of  them  wero 


FISH.  275 

so  perfectly  tame,  that  they  would  eat  greedily  out  of 
the  hand ;  while  others  were  so  shy,  that  the  keeper 
discoursed  of  their  different  tempers  as  a  thing  quite  as 
evident  as  their  different  sizes.  The  tamest  of  all  was  a 
gigantic  Cod,  the  patriarch  of  the  pond,  which  the  man 
said  answered  to  his  name,  and  not  only  drew  near,  but 
put  up  his  snout  beseechingly  when  he  heard  the  word 
^'  Tom."  After  spending  fifteen  years  in  captivity,  in- 
creasing gradually  in  bulk  and  weight,  he  went  blind, 
possibly  from  age.  The  fisherman  was  evidently  fond  of 
him,  and  very  kind;  and  it  was  really  affecting  to 
observe  the  animal  raising  himself  in  the  water,  resting 
his  head  on  the  feeding-stone,  and  allowing  it  to  be 
gently  patted  or  stroked. 

The  Cod-fish,  paraphrasing  Shylock,  may  say,  "  If 
you  caress  me,  do  I  not  come  ?  If  you  crimp  me,  do  I 
not  feel  ?" 

CodCs  Head  and  Shoulders^  Boiled.  Crimped  cod 
may  be  put  on  with  the  water  hot ;  it  is  safer  to  put  on 
an  entire,  unslashed,  large  piece  of  cod,  with  the  water 
cold  or  tepid,  unless  it  has  become  very  firm  indeed  by 
several  days'  salting  and  drying.  The  thickness  of  the 
fish  must  regulate  the  time  of  boiling,  but  alcut  half  an 
hour  will  suflBce.  Serve  on  a  napkin ;  garnish  with 
scraped  horse-radish,  or  parsley,  or  both ;  surround  with 
slices  of  fried  roe  and  pieces  either  of  its  own  or  of  skate's 
liver;  and  accompany  with  oyster  sauce.  It  is  also 
eaten  with  Dutch  sauce,  Caper  sauce,  Anchovy  sauce, 
or  Shrimp  sauce. 

Middle  of  Cod  J  BoHed^  the  same. 


276  FI8H. 

Each  of  ihese  parts  should  contain^  in  its  natural 
place,  the  portion  of  sound  which  belongs  tx>  it 

(MCs  Head  and  Shmtlders^  Baked.  If  the  fish  may 
not  be  served  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked,  it  must 
be  tied  about  with  broad  tape,  to  assist  its  removal ;  but 
it  is  much  better  to  avoid  such  removal,  by  placing  the 
baking-dish  in  another,  to  be  served. 

Take  a  good-sized,  deep,  open  pie-dish,  big  enough 
to  hold  your  cod's  head  and  shoulders  without  being 
cramped  for  space.  Stuff  the  fore-part  of  the  fish  with 
veal  stuffing ;  or,  if  preferred,  you  may  serve  forcemeat 
balls  round  it  instead.  Lay  the  fish  in  the  dish  in  its 
natural  position,  L  e.  with  the  thick  part  of  the  back 
upwards.  Mix  flour  and  water  (cold)  very  thin,  and 
pour  it  over  the  fish  till  the  dish  is  half  or  three-quarters 
&1I.  Dust  into  it  a  little  pepper ;  add  a  dozen  or  more 
oysters  and  their  liquor  (according  to  the  number  of 
guests),  and  a  couple  of  anchovies  filleted  and  cut  into 
short  lengths.  Lay  pieces  of  butter  all  over  the  back 
of  your  fish,  and  set  into  a  gentle  oven.. 

When  the  butter  is  melted,  baste  your  fish,  continuing 
to  do  so  from  time  to  time,  imtil  enough ;  which  will 
depend  upon  the  heat  of  your  oven.  It  is  not  desirable 
that  the  skin  should  be  much  browned,  if  at  all,  which 
may  be  avoided  by  covering  it  with  oiled  paper. 

When  quite  done,  if  you  serve  the  fish  in  its  baking- 
dish,  put,  with  a  spoon,  all  the  liquid  portion  of  the 
gravy  you  can  get  into  a  saucepan,  to  reduce  by  boiling 
down  (straining,  if  required,  or  thickening),  seasoning 
with  lemon-juice  or  any  other  simple  flavour  that  may  be 


FISH.  277 

liked.  After  it  has  been  nicely  finished  to  your  taste,  pour 
it  hot  over  your  fish,  add  the  forcemeat  balls,  and  serve. 

Remnants  of  Cod  make  a  sightly  and  agreeable  dish 
Heated'Up  thus :  Pick  the  flakes  of  fish  away  £rom  the 
bones  and  skin  before  they  get  cold.  When  wanted, 
put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  what  is  left  of  the  sauce 
(oyster,  anchovy,  or  other)  with  which  they  were  origin- 
ally served.  Add  a  dozen  or  more  firesh  oysters  and 
their  liquor.  K  those  are  not  enough  to  moisten  the  fish 
(and  it  only  requires  to  be  just  moistened),  make  up  the 
deficiency  with  a  spoonftil  or  two  of  melted  butter. 
Warm  very  careftilly  over  a  gentle  fire ;  when  once  hot 
through,  set  it  aside. 

Surround  your  dish  (previously  well  heated)  with  a 
wall  of  delicate  mashed  potatoes,  so  as  to  leave  a  hollow 
in  the  middle.  In  this  hollow  deposit  your  warmed-up 
fish,  with  its  sauce.  Sprinkle,  over  the  fish  only,  grated 
bread-crumbs  or  biscuit-raspings ;  set  it  for  a  few  minutes 
in  a  sharp  oven  or  under  a  salamander;  and  when  nicely 
browned  on  the  top,  serve. 

Ling  and  Hahe^  likewise  species  of  the  genus  GaduSj 
are  treated  in  every  way  like  Cod  ;  to  which,  as  a  rule, 
they  are  considered  inferior,  being  coarser,  harder,  and 
more  insipid.  To  this  judgment,  however,  there  are 
persons  who  demur,  something  depending  on  the  waters 
and  the  latitude  in  which  the  fish  is  taken.  They  are 
very  largely  salted  in  the  North  of  Europe.  The  Nor- 
wegians have  a  mode  of  drying  Ling  which  renders  its 
flesh  semi-transparent.  In  this  singular  and  jelly-like 
state,  it  is  served  as  a  dainty  dish  on  gala  days. 


278  PISH. 

The  Coatr-fish^  another  GaduSj  so  called  from  its  sooty- 
complexion,  is  an  excellent  fish,  its  meat  being  inter- 
mediate between  that  of  the  Cod  and  the  Whiting. 
Dress  exactly  like  Cod,  from  which  few  people  would  be 
able  to  distinguish  it  by  the  sense  of  taste. 

The  Whiting^  the  most  delicate  of  the  family,  some- 
times attains  a  considerable  size ;  in  which  case  it  must 
bo  treated  like  cod,  only  it  requires  a  much  shorter  time 
to  cook.  Quite  small  whiting  can  only  be  fried.  Inter- 
mediate-sized can  either  be  fried  or  scalded. 

Scalded  Whiting.  Few  dishes  are  more  proper  than 
this  to  set  before  an  invalid  in  an  early  stage  of  con- 
yalescence,  not  even  a  boiled  sole,  which  may  be  pre- 
sented a  day  or  two  after  the  whiting. 

Open  your  fish  by  the  belly ;  empty  them,  carefully 
removing  the  black  internal  film,  and  reserving  the  roes 
and  livers,  which  are  delicate.  Take  out  the  eyes ;  lay 
the  fish  in  salt  for  several  hours,  or  all  night. 

Bend  each  fish  into  a  circle  by  thrusting  its  tail 
through  the  eye-holes.  Throw  them  into  boiling  water, 
which  let  boil  up  once,  skim,  and  set  on  the  side  of  the 
stove.  Small  fish  will  be  done  in  five  or  eight  minutes. 
Take  them  out  of  the  water  instantly  you  judge  they  are 
enough. 

Serve  on  a  napkin  ;  the  simplest  sauce  is  the  best  to 
send  up  with  them.  None  is  better  than  very  fresh  and 
sweet  butter  oiled.  Still,  several  more  highly  flavoured 
sauces,  as  oyster,  anchovy,  or  shrimp,  are  perfectly 
appropriate. 

Fried  Whiting.    Prepare  and  arrange  these  as  before, 


FISH.  279 

with  the  tail  stack  through  the  eyes,  only  toitliout  the 
salting. 

Some  cooks  have  their  whitings  for  frying  skinned — 
a  questionable  practice,  best  avoided.  If  the  whitings 
are  badlt/  fried,  the  absence  of  the  skin  allows  them  to 
become  sodden  with  grease  ;  and  if  they  are  toell  fried,  the 
skin,  left  on,  will  retain  the  natural  juices  and  flavour  of 
the  fish.  They  are  done  in  a  very  short  space  of  time, 
requiring  little  more  than  a  good  plunge  into  a  deep  bath 
of  boiling  fat 

The  Haddock^  anotlior  of  the  Cod  family,  is  an  ex- 
cellent fish,  with  firm,  M'ell-flavoured  flesh.  When  large, 
it  is  dressed  in  the  same  way  as  cod,  and  takes  an  equal 
time  to  cook — much  longer  than  whiting. 

Small  Iiaddock  and  codlings^  like  under-sized  whiting, 
may  be  either  boiled  or  fried,  with  the  same  preparation. 
They  scarcely  hold  together  well  enough  to  stand  broiling 
without  considerable  trouble. 

Finnan  Haddocks  (smoked),  if  recent,  need  only  be 
laid  on  a  gridiron  over  a  gentle  fire,  or  toasted,  or  set 
in  the  oven  of  the  cooking-stove.  If  old  and  dry,  they 
will  be  the  better  for  steeping  half  an  hour  or  longer  in 
tepid  water,  or  milk  and  water,  before  cooking. 

SkatCy  not  a  very  digestible  fish,  nor  desirable  to  par- 
take of  too  frequently,  is  considered  to  be  the  better  for 
keeping  or  travelling,  as  rendering  its  flesh  less  stringy. 

SkatCy  Boiled,  For  this,  select  a  large  fish,  or  part 
of  one ;  as  it  is  often  sold  piecemeal,  by  the  pound. 
The  skinning,  &c.  is  so  troublesome,  that  it  ought  to  be 
done  by  the  fishmonger.     Cut  the  fish  into  squares,  or 


280  FISH. 

shapelj  pieces^  and  boiL  Serve  on  a  napkin,  garnished 
widi  pardejr.  Caper  saooo  is  nsnallj  sent  np  with  it, 
bat  anchovj  or  shrimp  saooe  are  admissible.  Send  np 
some  of  the  liver  with  it 

Fried  Skate.  Small  fish,  commonly  called  Afaidsy  are 
mostly  cooked  in  this  way,  as  may  also  be  the  thinner 
parts  of  large  skate.  The  latter  also,  cnt  into  strips, 
twisted  into  ronnds,  stnek  through  with  a  skewer, 
and  fried,  are  often  called  Crimped  State,  These, 
fried,  may  be  used  to  lay  round  a  dish  of  Boiled  Skate. 
Cold  Fried  Skate  is  good,  eaten  with  pepper,  oil,  and 
vinegar. 

Machardj  Bailed.  Empty  by  an  orifice  near  the  gills 
made  as  small  as  possible,  leaving  the  roes  in  their  place. 
Many  cooks  set  mackarel  on  the  fire  in  cold  water,  for 
fear  of  breaking  the  skin  and  splitting  the  tail.  Tweniy 
minutes  after  boiling  up  will  be  long  enough,  though  some 
like  them  to  simmer  longer.  Serve  on  a  napkin,  on  a 
bed  of  green  fennel-leaves,  accompanied  by  fennel,  goose- 
berry, anchovy,  or  shrimp  sauce.  Melted  butter,  with 
a  dash  of  mustard  and  vinegar,  makes  as  nice  a  sauce 
for  mackarel  as  it  does  for  salmon. 

Mackarely  Bakedj  au  Grratin.  The  same  as  plaice  au 
ffratin  (p.  257),  only  the  chopped-up  sweet  herbs  should 
contain  a  certain  proportion  of  fennel. 

Mackarely  Fried.  Cut  off  the  head ;  split  the  fish 
quite  open  all  along  the  belly  and  below  it  Lay  tlie 
fish  flat,  without  removing  the  backbone ;  dust  with  floiu', 
and  fiy.      Serve  garnished  with  fried  fennel. 

Mackarel  may  be  Broiled^  prepared  as  above,  omitting 


FISH.  281 

the  flouring;  but  the  .fish  is  rather  too  dry  for  grilling, 
and  in  that  case  requires  smearing  with  butter  or 
oil. 

Potted  Mackarel  (p.  84). 

Grat/  Mullet  J  when  large,  may  be  boiled  and  served 
with  the  same  sauce  as  mackarel  or  salmon,  to  which  its 
flavour  is  sometimes  rather  rashly  compared.  But  it  is 
a  fish  which  is  very  diversely  appreciated,  owing  perhaps 
to  its  habit  of  prowling  about  the  mouths  of  estuaries 
and  grubbing  in  the  mud.  Small  Gray  Mullet  may  be 
baked  au  graJtm^  or  firied. 

Red  Mullet^  or  Surmullet^  sometimes  called  the  Wood- 
cock of  the  Sea,  because  it  is  usual  to  cook  them  scaled, 
but  witlwut  emptying.  Dress  them  in  the  oven,  au 
ffratiuy  with  a  liberal  allowance  of  butter.  Sen^e  in  the 
dish  in  which  tliey  were  cooked ;  the  gravy  which  comes 
from  them  is  their  best  sauce. 

JRed  Mullet  are  also  Broiled^  wrapped  in  oiled  paper, 
over  a  gentle  fire.  It  is  a  solid-fleshed  fish,  in  high 
repute  with  epicures,  but  not  particularly  light  of 
digestion  by  weak  stomachs. 

Fresh  or  White  Herring^  in  Yarmouth  phrase.  This 
valuable  fish  is  too  oily  to  fiy,  unless  treated  as  Sardines 
are  in  the  South  of  Europe,  L  e.  plunged  into  a  cauldron 
of  boiling  oil.  Coddled  in  fat  in  the  frying-pan,  it  is 
unwholesomely  greasy,  being  almost  sure  to  rise  in  the 
stomach. 

White  Ilerrinffy  Broiled^  Ay  are  excellent,  either 
fresh  out  of  the  sea,  or  salted  twelve  hours.  Crimp  or 
score  ihem,  in  three  or  four  places,  on  each  side,  letting 


282  FISH. 

your  knife  reach  the  backbone  without  touching  it 
Broil  over  a  clear  fire,  serving  very  hot 

White  Herring  J  Broiled^'  B.  Cut  off  the  heads  of 
your  fish  after  scaling  them ;  split  them  quite  down  along 
the  belly;  lay  them  flat  and  take  out  the  backbone. 
Sprinkle  the  inside  of  each  fish  with  pepper,  salt,  and  the 
least  dust  of  flour.  Clap  the  fish  together  in  pairs,  face 
to  face,  pressing  them  down  hai*d,  to  make  the  contact  as 
close  and  complete  as  possible ;  then  grill,  taking  care  in 
turning  them  not  to  separate  the  fish.  They  take  some- 
what longer  time  than  single  herring  to  do  thoroughly. 

Broiled  White  Herring  need  no  sauce  except  a  little 
4$alt  to  eat  with  them. 

Potted  Herring  (p.  85). 

Broiled  Sprats.  Do  them  over  a  sharp,  clear  fire, 
and  eat  them  the  instant  they  are  off  the  gridiron.  To  be 
really  good,  they  should  be  cooked  in  the  room  in  which 
ihey  are  eaten. 

Potted  Sprats  (p.  85). 

Tlie  Gurnards^  Gray  and  Redy  the  latter  most 
•esteemed  because  most  showy,  are  firm,  white-fleshed 
fish,  of  good  flavour,  and  not  difficult  of  digestion — ^a 
little  dry,  perhaps;  which  the  cook  must  remedy  by 
plenty  of  butter.  The  best  way  of  dressing  them  is  to 
bake  them  with  a  stuffing,  like  pike,  or  au  gratin^  with 
•crumbs  and  sweet  herbs.  Nevertheless,  they  may  be 
boiled  and  served  with  anclwvy  or  other  relishing  sauce. 
-Quito  small  ones  can  be  firied. 

Tlie  Weevers  (the  Great  and  the  Lesser)  have  white) 
dry,  agreeable  flesh,  wholesome,  but  second-rate  in  quality. ' 


FISH,  283 

Great  Weevers  may  bo  boiled,  but  tlie  Lesser  are  mostly 
too  small  to  be  cooked  otherwise  than  by  firyinff.  The 
smaUer  species  affords  very  pretty  anglLg^m  piers 
and  jetties,  biting  freely ;  but  it  must  be  stuck  with  a 
fork,  to  take  it  off  the  hook.  Both  the  Weevers  are 
armed  with  spines,  which  inflict  a  sting  whose  pain,  often 
severe,  is  believed  by  fishermen  to  last  until  the  turn  of 
the  tide  during  which  it  was  received. 

The  Ccnger  has  white,  dry,  poor-flavoured  flesh, 
which  people  (especially  Boman  Catholics)  put  up  with 
as  a  matter  of  duty,  and  for  want  of  something  better. 
Small  ones  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  eels,  but 
are  far  inferior  to  them.  When  large,  the  best  mode  of 
dressing  is, 

Conger^  Roasted.  Take  a  handsome  piece  out  of  the 
middle  of  a  fish ;  skin  it ;  let  it  lie  a  few  hours  in  salt  and 
vinegar,  mixed  with  chopped  sage  and  parsley  or  other 
sweet  herbs.  Stuff  it  with  veal  stuffing ;  bind  with  broad 
tape,  and  roast  before  the  fire  with  a  bottle-jack,  dredging 
with  flour  and  basting  well  with  butter  till  done. 

Thicken  the  gravy  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  flour ; 
season  with  a  dash  of  vinegar,  or  Harvey  or  Anchovy 
sauce,  and  pour  it  over  the  fish  on  serving.  Accompany 
with  lemon  cut  in  halves  for  each  guest  to  squeeze  over 
his  portion  of  fish. 

Conger  Pie.  The  Conger  is  abundant  on  the  coasts 
of  Cornwall,  where  the  inhabitants  cordially  welcome  his 
visits.  To  Comishmen,  nothiog  comes  amiss  in  a  pie. 
Every  thing  known  as  human  food  is  considered  by  them 
in  its  fittest  condition  when  put  under  a  crust     There  is 


284  FISH. 

a  saying  to  the  effect  that  the  Old  One  himself  never 
visits  Cornwall,  for  fear  of  being  put  into  a  pie.  Conger 
pie,  however,  is  a  local  dainty  of  preeminent  and 
universal  excellence, .  standing  quite  at  the  head  of  the 
list  of  articles  worthy  of  a  pasty  crown  of  glory.  The 
clotted  cream  and  parsley  peculiar  to  the  west  are  like- 
wise necessaiy  as  ingredients.  In  no  other  country  is 
conger  pie  to  be  had  in  equal  excellence ;  nowhere  else 
is  the  luxury  so  highly  valued  and  so  thoroughly  under- 
stood. Still,  the  Conger  is  served  in  a  variety  of  ways, 
and  it  is  not  only  in  a  pie  that  he  is  eaten.  As  a  rule, 
the  pie  is  his  natural  destination,  but  he  is  also  fre- 
quently broiled  and  fried,  according  to  the  taste  of  the 
consumer. — Land  and  Water ^  September  29,  1866. 

Fricasseed  Froga^  Chicken-wise.  Although  Frogs 
are  not  fish,  they  are  classed  by  the  Boman  Catholic 
Church  in  the  list  of  meager  animal  fo^ ;  and  therefore 
their  place  is  more  appropriate  here  than  any  where  else. 
In  spite  of  the  great  prejudice  against  their  employment 
which  has  existed  in  England  from  time  immemorial, 
Frogs  afford  a  light,  nutritious  diet,  especially  adapted 
for  invahds.  It  is  a  time-honoured,  vulgar  prejudice, 
that  Frenchmen  are  a  nation  who  live  on  frogs ;  which 
iliey  do  not,  for  the  simple  motive  that  the  supposed 
national  dish  is  far  too  dear.  There  is  no  reasoning 
about  these  matters  of  taste ;  it  is  a  question  partly  of 
fashion,  but  mainly  of  use.  It  will  be  said  that  the  frog 
is  a  reptile.  True ;  so  likewise  is  the  high-priced  turtle: 
and  in  the  equatorial  regions  of  the  world,  several  large 
lizards  are  eagerly  captured  for  the  sake  of  the  delicacy 


FISH.  285 

of  their  flesh.  The  ancient  repute  of  viper  broth,  as  a 
regenerator,  is  notorious. 

Time,  and  international  intercourse,  will  bring  about, 
in  all  probability,  considerable  change  in  our  estimate  of 
sundry  foreign  eatables.  Caviare  and  Pate  de  Foie  Gras 
are  slowly  winning  their  way  to  populariiy,  and  a  similar 
destiny  may  be  in  store  for  frogs.  Fifty  years  ago,  the 
following  advertisement,  from  the  Times,  would  have 
been  considered  as  a  sign  of  national  decadence.  Who 
would  have  thought,  at  the  commencement  of  the  pre- 
sent century,  that  England  would  ever  have  been  thus 
degraded,  and  that  the  blood  of  Nelson  would  have  been 
shed  in  vain  ?  ^^  French  Fboos  and  Narbonne  Honey. 
— "Ratt.  and  Son  beg  to  announce,  they  have  received 
importations  of  the  above  delicious  rarities  in  original 
packages." 

We,  therefore,  give  an  esteemed  French  receipt, 
without  seriously  expecting  that  it  will  be  executed  here ; 
because  the  lest  kind  of  edible  &og  (all  are  edible),  if 
occasionally  found  in  Great  Britain,  is  very  rare.  But 
as  many  persons,  entertaining  a  strong  prejudice  against 
ihem,  have  been  entrapped  (not  very  good-naturedly)  into 
eating  frogs,  by  calling  them  spring  chicken,  a  more 
harmless  and  more  practicable  joke  would  be  to  offer 
portions  of  chicken  under  the  guise  of  frogs — ^mock  frog, 
in  &ct,  as  we  ixiake  mock  turtle  out  of  calf's  head — to 
find  out  whether  pretended  connoisseurs  are  able  to 
detect  the  difference. 

For  those  who  like  them,  or  who  dare  venture  to 
taste  them,  frogs  ready  prepared  for  cooking  may  be 


286  FISH. 

obtained,  not  only  from  the  above-named  firm,  but  from 
France.  They  are  not  uncommonly  sent  over  as  presents 
to  friends.  The  hind  portion  only  of  the  animal  is  eaten  ; 
the  body  being  cut  in  two  at  the  waist,  and  the  upper 
part  rejected.  The  skin  is  then  stripped  o£Pthe  loins  and 
legs,  and  the  feet  chopped  off  at  the  ankles.  As  the  flesh 
is  beautifully  white,  and  the  legs  are  twisted  in  a  peculiar 
way,  they  may  easily  be  mistaken  for  wings  of  chicken 
that  have  been  skinned  before  turning  back  the  pinion 
.in  the  usual  way.  A  dish  of  mock  ftx>gs  is  no  great 
extravagance,  as  the  remainder  of  the  fowl  will  make  a 
good  chicken  pie. 

For  real  frogs,  after  skinning,  make  them  take  a  turn 
or  two  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water;  then  throw  them 
into  cold  water,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
button  mushrooms,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  cliives,  garlic^ 
two  cloves,  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Add  a  pinch  of  flour, 
and  moisten  with  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  a  little  broth. 
Throw  in  some  pepper  and  salt,  cook  them  till  they  are 
tender.  Take  them  out;  boil  down  the  sauce  to  a  smaller 
quantity ;  thicken  it  with  yolks  of  egg^  and  a  bit  of 
butter :  tlu*ow  in  some  chopped  and  scalded  parsley,  and 
pour  it  over  the  frogs  in  their  dish. 

Oysters  are  popularly  held  to  be  in  season  only  in  the 
months  which  are  spelt  with  an  r,  {,€•  from  September  to 
April  inclusive.  The  opinion  of  the  most  competent  autho- 
rities now  is  that  the  oyster  season  both  begins  and  closer 
too  soon.  They  are  hardly  at  their  best  before  the  end  of 
October  or  the  beginning  of  November ;  and  they  are  often 
still  excellent  till  the  end  of  May  or  the  middle  of  June. 


FISH.  387 

The  grand  consumption  of  oysters  is  made  in  their 
uncooked  state,  with  or  without  a  seasoning  of  lemon- 
juice  or  vinegar  and  pepper.  The  French  make  a 
coarsely  ground  preparation  of  white  pepper,  expressly 
to  eat  with  oysters,  called  "  Mignionette ;"  which  also^ 
entering  in  large  proportion  into  a  sauce,  causes  it  to  be 
called  "  Mignionette  Sauce."  Uncooked  oysters  have  a 
great  reputation  as  restoratives ;  but  to  those  for  whose 
stomachs  they  are  found  too  cold  and  heavy,  we  recom- 
mend the  following  receipts. 

Stewed  Oysters.  In  opening  them,  leave  the  beards 
on ;  carefiilly  save  every  drop  of  the  liquor,  which  strain 
from  bits  of  shell  and  other  impurities.  At  the  bottom 
of  a  stew-pan  put  a  good  lump  of  butter ;  when  it  begins 
to  melt,  put  to  it  your  oysters  and  their  liquor.  Dredge 
them  with  a  very  little  flour,  and  dust  them  with  a 
pinch  of  pepper  and  grated  nutmeg.  Keep  shaking 
them  round  and  round  in  the  saucepan,  till  the  sauce 
is  smooth  and  well  incorporated.  Keep  them  also  at 
a  good  distance  over  the  fire,  or  at  the  side,  or  on  tlie 
hot  iron  plate  of  your  cooking-stove,  until  the  oysters 
are  all  well  warmed  through.  If  they  boil,  they  become 
leathery. 

At  the  bottom  of  a  hot  vegetable-dish  lay  a  thin 
slice  of  toast,  nicely  browned.  On  this  arrange  your 
oysters  with  a  spoon.  Boil  up  the  sauce  an  instant,  and 
pour  it  over  them. 

The  genuine  flavour  of  the  oysters  is  preferable  to  any 
other ;  but  for  those  who  like  it,  it  may  be  heightened 
with  lemon-peel,  lemon-juice,  or  essence  of  anchovy.    A 


288  FISH. 

shred  of  horse-radish  adds  an  agreeable  zest,  but  is  apt 
to  be  trying  to  weak  stomachs. 

Roasted  Oysters^  A,  Open  the  oysters,  detaching 
them  only  from  the  upper  shell,  with  wliich  then  cover 
the  oyster  and  its  juice  in  the  lower  shell.  Put  them  in 
an  oven  until  well  hot  through.  Serve  them  on  a  large 
dish,  accompanied  by  pats  of  cold  butter  to  put  into 
them,  and  a  plate  of  brown  bread  and  butter. 

Roasted  Oysters^  B.  Open  the  oysters,  removing 
them  entirely  from  their  shell,  and  saving  the  liquor, 
which  strain,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  bit  of 
butter,  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  and  lemon-juice.  Give 
the  oysters  just  a  warm-up  in  this.  Select  the  largest 
and  handsomest  shells,  both  upper  and  under;  into 
each  of  these  put  three  or  four  oysters  and  as  much  of 
the  sauce  as  they  will  hold.  Set  them  in  an  oven,  or  on 
a  gridiron,  until  they  are  thoroughly  hot  without  boiling, 
and  serve. 

Fried  Oysters.  Procure  the  largest  oysters  you  can ; 
give  them  just  a  scald  over  the  fire  in  their  own  liquor ; 
steep  them  for  an  hour  or  two  in  salt,  pepper,  grated 
nutmeg,  and  lemon-juice.  Dip  them  in  batter,  and  fry 
them  lightly  in  plenty  of  hot  fat,  exactly  as  you  would 
fritters.  They  require  great  care  not  to  over-do  them ; 
in  which  case  they  will  turn  out  homy. 

Fried  Oysters  make  an  elegant  garnish  to  Boiled 
Cod  or  other  large  fisL 

Oyster  Pie.  Very  nice.  (American.)  Cover  a  deep 
jjate  (a  soup-plate  answers  perfectly)  with  puff-paste; 
lay  an  extra  layer  around  the  edge  of  the  plate,  and  bake 


FISH.  289- 

nicely.  When  done,  fill  the  pie  with  oysters;  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  batter;  dnst  over  a  little  flour, 
and  cover  with  a  thin  crust  of  puff-paste.  Bake  quickly ; 
when  the  top  crust  is  done,  the  oysters  should  be.  Serve 
as  soon  as  baked,  as  the  crust  quickly  absorbs  the  gravy. 
This  pie  is  quite  as  good  cold  as  hot,  and  is  excellent  for' 
picnics  or  for  travelling. 

Scalloped  Oysters.  The  proper  utensil  in  which  to 
dress  and  serve  this  favourite  supper  dish  is  the  natural 
hollow  shell  of  the  scallop,  or,  in  default  thereof,  in 
small  dishes  made  of  tin,  in  imitation  of  their  shape  and 

size. 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor ;  take  off  the 
beards,  from  which  squeeze  all  the  liquor  they  contain  ; 
add  it  to  the  other,  and  strain. 

Warm  up  the  bearded  oysters  in  this,  with  a  little 
pepper,  pounded  mace,  or  grated  nutmeg,  a  little  piece 
of  butter,  and  a  slight  dust  of  flour,  taking  care  not  to 
let  them  come  to  a  boil.  The  liquor  of  the  oysters  will 
contain  sufficient  salt 

Line  the  bottom  of  the  scallop-shells  with  bread- 
crumbs ;  on  these  put  a  layer  of  oysters ;  then  a  few  more 
bread-crumbs ;  and  then  more  oysters.  Moisten  with  a 
few  teaspoonfuls  of  the  liquor ;  cover  again  with  bread- 
crumbs thickly;  lay  a  few  small  bits  of  butter  here  and 
there;  garnish  the  top  with  a  very  small  sprinkling  of 
fine-chopped  parsley;  and  set  in  an  oven  or  under  a 
salamander  until  the  whole  is  well  heated  through,  and 
the  surface  nicely  crisp  and  brown. 

Cockles  and  Mussels  may  be  Scalloped  in  the  same 

IT 


990  FIBH. 

way.  Hnsiliiig  them  in  saucepan  over  the  fire  until 
the  meat  oomes  easily  away  firom  the  shell  is  a  sufficient 
preliminaiy  cooking. 

Oyster  Pudding ,  in  Sccdlap^SheUs.  Scald  the  oysters 
in  their  own  liquor.  Take  them  out,  drain,  and  chop 
them  fine.  Take  crumb  of  bread  soaked  in  cream,  fine* 
chopped  parsley,  chives,  anchovy,  pepper,  and  a, bit  of 
fresh  butter^melted  to  oil.  Mix  these  thoroughly  with 
the  chopped  oysters,  adding  at  the  same  time  one  or  two 
raw  beat-up  eggs.  Smear  the  bottom  of  your  scallop- 
shells  with  butter ;  fill  them  with  the  above  composition ; 
sprinkle  bread-crumbs  over  the  surface,  and  set  them  in 
the  oven  till  delicately  browned. 

Scallops  require  a  deal  of  cooking,  after  which  they 
are  wholesome  and  palatable  food — Soyer  calls  them 
**  exceedingly  fine" — ^but  they  are  never  lighty  and  cannot 
be  eaten  frequently.  Haw — in  the  same  way  as  un- 
cooked oysters — ^they  are  apt  to  cause  an  indigestion 
which  will  take  days  to  get  rid  of. 

On  opening  the  scallops,  remove  the  beards;  wash 
them  in  two  or  three  waters,  to  get  rid  of  sand,  &c. ;  and 
let  them  lie  an  hour  or  two  in  salt-and-water. 

Stew  them  in  water  or  broth,  witli  a  little  pepper, 
butter,  and  flour,  for  a  couple  of  hours,  or  more,  till 
tender.  They  can  then  be  served,  like  stewed  oysters, 
on  toast ;  or  scalloped ;  or  fried ;  or  put  into  a  pie.  For 
patties,  they  must  be  well  chopped,  and  stirred  up 
together  with  some  delicate  yet  well-seasoned  sauce. 

Scallops  of  Cold    Veal  or   Chicken^  are  a  mode  of 
serving  flesh  under  a  meager  disguise.     Mince  the  meat 


FISH.  291 

small.  Warm  it  up  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  cream, 
pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and  chopped  lemon-peel.  Nearly 
fill  the  scallop-shells  with  this ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs 
and  a  dust  of  chopped  parsley ;  lay  a  few  little  bits  of 
butter  on  the  top,  and  brown  in  the  oven  or  under  a 
salamander. 

Mussels  a  la  Poulette  (French).  Hustle  your  mus- 
sels as  directed  at  page  91.  When  done,  remove  the 
half-shell  which  does  not  contain  the  meat ;  take  the  weed 
and  the  crab,  if  any,  from  the  mussel,  and  arrange  each 
half-shell  containing  its  mussel  neatly  piled  or  packed  in 
an  open  dish. 

Pour  over  them,  scalding  hot,  a  sauce  made  as  fol- 
lows. Make  melted  butter,  not  with  water,  but  with  the 
liquor  from  the  mussels,  after  letting  it  settle,  with  a 
liberal  allowance  of  butter.  Add  a  sprinkling  of  pepper, 
and  as  much  vinegar  as  will  give  it  a  decided  sharpness. 
Some  cooks  heighten  this  sauce  with  nutmeg  or  mace, 
chopped  parsley  and  chives ;  the  Doctor  prefers  it  with- 
out these  latter. 

Muslinffnudlery  Norwegian  Mussel  Powder^  in  bottles 
or  tin  cases.  If  the  latter,  the  lid  (fastened  down  with 
wax)  must  be  lieated  in  order  to  get  it  off.  Useful  for 
Fish  Soups,  Quenelles  of  Fish,  Fish  Puddings,  Sauces, 
or  as  an  accompaniment  to  dishes  of  that  description. 
The  following  directions  are  Norwegian,  and  may  be 
varied  to  suit  the  English  taste. 

With  half  a  pint  of  milk,  boil  salt,  cayenne  pepper, 
grated  nutmeg,  cream,  and  butter.  Add  thereto  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  Mussel  (or  other)  Powder,  grated 


292  FISH. 

cmmb  of  bread^  and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Keep 
stirring  gently  with  a  spoon.  When  the  mixture  is  com- 
plete,  the  dish  is  ready. 

This  preparation  may  be  served  in  scallop-shells, 
bread-crumbed  at  top,  and  browned  nnder  a  salamander. 

Summemudlery  Norwegian  Lohsier  Powder ^  is  em- 
ployed exactly  as  the  preceding.  It  is  very  convenient 
to  have  in  the  house,  in  case  Lobster  Sauce,  or  Lobster 
Patties,  are  unexpectedly  required.  For  the  former, 
steep  it  in  milk  half  an  hour,  and  then  treat  it  as  directed 
either  for  Lobster  Sauce,  or,  better,  as  in  Lobster  Sauce 
without  Lobster  (p.  115). 

Crabsj  Lobsters^  ajid  Sea  Crawfish  may  be  bought 
ready-cooked  in  London  and  other  large  towns — a  great 
convenience.  Crabs  especially  require  great  attention  in 
boiling.  They  must  be  put  on  the  fire  with  the  water 
cold;  4 if  it  is  hot,  or  even  if  it  warms  too  quickly,  they 
have  the  extraordinary  faculty  of  shooting  their  claws ; 
a  crab  plunged  into  hot  water  will  in  half  a  minute,  or 
less  time  perhaps,  have  thrown  off  every  one  of  its 
claws ;  and  both  thev  and  the  dismembered  carcase  will 
be  spoiled,  not  only  in  appearance,  but  also  in  quality, 
by  the  water  entering  them.  And  the  difficulty  is,  that 
all  these  crustaceans  cooked  after  death  are  eitlier  quite 
inferior  or  good  for  nothing.  In  mild  weather,  wrapped 
in  a  damp  cloth  or  in  sea-weed,  they  will  live  a  consider- 
able time  out  of  water ;  but  a  short  exposure  to  frost 
kills  them  even  more  rapidly  than  the  summer's  heat. 

The  lobster  does  not  shoot  its  claws  so  readily  as  the 
crab ;  still  it  is  better  to  sot  it  on  the  fire  with  the  water 


FISH.  293 

cold,  letting  it  heat  veiy  gradually;  which  causes 
the  creature  to  faint  away,  rather  than  to  die  a  sudden 
deatk  Although  these  animals  are  so  ferocious  and 
destructive  that  we  need  have  no  scruple  in  eating  thenii 
one  would  not  put  them  to  unnecessary  suffering.  An 
American  direction  is,  ^^To  boil  a  lobster,  the  pot 
should  be  full  of  strong  salted  water,  boiling  hot  Put 
the  fish  in  the  pot,  aUve,  while  boiling  hard,  toith  its  head 
downwardy  thai  it  may  die  as  quickly  as  passible  ;^^  but  it 
is  difficult  to  understand  how  a  lobster,  with  a  couple  of 
fine  claws  protruding  before  it,  can  be  made  to  take 
this  fatal  header  into  the  pot.  The  crawfish,  having  no 
large  claws,  can  perform  the  feat  more  easily. 

When  the  shell-fish,  set  on  in  cold  water,  is  quite 
dead,  throw  in  a  good  handful  of  salt.  Bemove  the 
scum  as  it  rises.  After  boiling  up,  a  large  crab  or 
lobster  will  take  firom  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour's 
further  boiling,  weU  covered  and  galloping.  Some  fish- 
mongers and  cooks  are  apt  to  take  them  up  too  soon ;  the 
former  to  avoid  diminishing  their  weight,  the  latter  to 
retain  their  juiciness  and  flavour :  but  in  that  case  the 
contents  of  the  body  or  the  head  are  likely  to  be  no^  setj 
watery — ^which  is  a  great  defect. 

Abroad,  shell-fish  are  mostly  boiled  in  court-bouillon ; 
a  practice  which  neither  suits  English  tastes  nor  stomachs. 
Boiling  in  plain  salt-and-water  is  preferable,  especially  if 
it  is  desired  to  retain  the  genuine  flavour  of  the  fish. 

Grab  is  reputed  more  digestible  than  lobster ;  and  the 
claw  of  the  lobster  than  the  tail.  The  crawfish  is  the 
most  indigestible  of  the  three,  with  harder  flesh,  and  a 


294  FISH. 

alight  musky  Savour  which  is  far  from  agreeable  to 
manj  palates.  Cheap  Paris  Bestaurants  sometimes 
serve  crawfish  (Langouste)  instead  of  the  true  lobster 
{Homard) ;  but  the  substitution  is  permissible  for  imita* 
tion  lobster  sauce,  at  most.  The  crawfish  has  a  wider 
southern  range;  it  is  found  in  tolerable  plenty  in  the 
Mediterranean,  at  the  bottom  of  whose  clear  waters  it  is 
speared  and  spoiled:  whereas,  the  far  more  delicious 
lobster  is  found  abundantly  on  the  rocky  coasts  of 
Norway,  the  United  Kingdom,  and  North  America* 
Preserved  lobster,  hermetically  sealed  in  tin  cases,  from 
distant  fisheries,  is  acceptable,  for  want  of  better ;  but  it 
is  far  inferior  to  and  more  uncertain  in  quality  than  our 
own  home-caught  and  home-boiled  fish. 

Crabj  Plaiuy  Coldy  opened  and  with  its  claws  cracked^ 
accompanied  by  the  cruet-stand,  and 'a  little  fresh  salad,, 
is  as  agreeable  and  wholesome  a  way  as  any  of  serving  it 

Crabj  Dressed^  Cold,  Open  the  crab,  by  raising  its 
body  (in  which  the  limbs  are  inserted),  from  the  cara- 
pace or  shell,  without  breaking  the  latter.  Carefully 
remove  the  gills  and  other  uneatable  parts.  Pick  all 
the  white  meat  from  the  claws  and  body ;  do  the  same 
with  what  is  good  of  the  inside,  Le.  the  white  and  yellow 
curd  and  the  coral.  Chop  these  tolerably  fine ;  mix  them 
together,  seasoning  with  oil,  vinegar,  mustard,  and 
pepper;  then  return  them  to  the  empty  shell,  garnishing 
with  sprigs  of  fresh  green  parsley. 

It  is  usual  for  crab  so  dressed  to  be  accompanied  by 
salad,  rolls,  and  pats  of  nice  butter. 

Crab^  Dressed f  Hot     Pick  and  prepare  your  crab  as. 


riSH.  295 

« 

before,  adding  bread-crumbs  and  pooiided  mace  or 
grated  nutmeg  to  the  seasoning.  Give  this  a  gentle 
warm-np  in  a  saucepan ;  replace  it  in  the  crab-shell ; 
sprinkle  bread-crumbs  on  the  top,  and  brown  it  under  a 
salamander. 

The  female  crab  is  more  delicate  than  the  male ;  her 
inside,  also,  i8  almost  always  fuller  and  finnet.  Thedif- 
ference  of  sex  is  known  at  a  glance.  The  female  has  a 
hroad  aprcny  the  male  a  narrow  one.  The  male  has  the 
larger  claws  of  the  two,  but  with  a  coarser  quality  of 
flesh. 

Lobster  Mayonnaise.  See  that  Sauce  (p.  124),  and 
witness  the  making  of  a  Mayonnaise  of  Lobster,  or 
merely  undo  one  which  has  been  sent  up  by  a  tasty  and 
first-rate  French  Chef. 

Lobster  J  Plain-Boiledy  is  sometimes  eaten  Hot.  The 
best  sauce  with  it  is  a  mixture  of  mustard,  oil,  and 
vinegar;  but  it  often  tempts  people  to  eat  too  much 
of  it 

Lobster y  Phin-BoUed^  Cold,  is  served  with  salad,  pats 
of  butter,  and  bread ;  and,  in  this  way,  has  a  better 
chance  of  being  partaken  of  in  moderation. 

Lobster  Salad.  [From  London  Society,  November 
1863.]  AU  receipts  utterly  fail  in  utility,  if  the  con- 
cocter  be  not  an  artist. 

Having  caught  or  possessed  yourself  of  a  fine  lobster, 
which  you  intend  to  eat,  it  is,  of  course,  first  necessary 
to  cook  it.  And  here  I  find  myself  differing  with  various 
culinary  men  of  distinction.  Generally,  their  advice  is, 
^'  Put  them  alive,  with  their  claws  tied  together,  into  the 


296  FI8H. 

water  when  boiling  hot"  Lobsters  .must  be  boiled ;  they 
are  bred  to  be  boiled  and  turn  red  in  the  face ;  and  a 
little  more  or  less  of  suffering  is  only  the  difference  of 
extracting  a  double  or  a  single  tooth.  We  all  go  to  the 
dentists ;  the  lobsters  go  to  pot :  in  that  pot,  let  your 
water  be  cold:  if  near  the  sea,  water  from  the  ocean; 
if  inland,  water  well  salted ;  the  time  of  cooking  com- 
mencing from  the  bubbling  of  the  water. 

Take  eggs  in  accordance  to  the  size  of  your  salad; 
let  them  be  boiled  as  hard  as  eggs  can  be  boiled,  then 
cooled^  in  fresh,  or  iced  water,  if  possible ;  extract  the 
yolks,  and  with  a  well-cleaned  silver  or  porcelain  spoon 
— the  latter  preferable— pound  them  into  fine  powder. 

This  done,  mix  the  eggs  with  salt,  mustard,  and 
cayenne,  and  the  berry  (if  it  be  a  female),  and  some  of 
the  selected  interior  of  the  animal;  to  which  add  vinegar 
and  the  most  fresh  and  luscious  cream.  It  avails 
nothing  to  teiryou  of  the  proportions — ^the  mere  smat- 
tering of  a  cookery-book ;  I  leave  it  to  the  taste  of  the 
conoocter. 

Your  sauce  well  and  sufficiently  mixed,  extract  the 
nutritious  flesh  of  the  animal  from  all  parts  save  the  head 
— ^though  some  savana  will  tell  you  that  the  fat  of  the 
head  or  body  is,  par  excelleneej  the  best  part  of  the  lob- 
ster— and  cut  it  in  pieces,  but  not  too  small. 

Take  several  fine  yellow-hearted  lettuces;  do  not 
soak  them  in  water,  but  take  leaf  firom  leaf;  use  only 
the  best ;  dip  them,  so  as  to  be  perfectly  firee  from  dirt 
or  insect,  in  fresh  water,  and  cut  in  tolerably  large 
pieces— not  too  large,  however,  for  the  most  delicate 


nsH.  297 

montL  Mix  lobster^  sauce,  and  lettuce  with  a  few  turns 
of  the  spoon,  but  do  not  bury  it  in  the  liquid,  and  at  the 
top  let  a  small  quantity  of  the  crisp  lettuce  appear. 

There  are  various  other  modes  of  making  lobster 
salads.  Many  prefer  oil  to  cream ;  and  some,  wanting 
oil  or  cream,  even  use  melted  butter,  and  add  Worcester 
and  other  sauces.  But  I  say,  use  cream.  If,  however, 
you  prefer  oil,  as  many  do,  then  use  it ;  but,  recollect,  it 
must  be  first-rate,  of  the  very  finest  Lucca. 

Lobster  salads  are  also  made  in  moulds,  and  a  very 
elegant,  nutritious,  and  agreeable  addition  they  are  on 
the  supper-table.  Hen  Lobsters  are  decidedly  preferable 
for  this  lady-like  dish.  It  is  merely  placing  a  lobster 
salad  in  a  mould  decorated  with  gherkins  or  beetroot 
I  have  seen  the  leaves  of  the  damask-rose  added  in  re- 
fined houses.  Let  it  be  well  frozen,  and  turned  out  of 
the  mould  only  a  short  time  previous  to  being  placed  on 
the  table.  This  dish,  in  all  respects  to  be  approved  of, 
should  be  prepared  by  a  skilful  hand. 

Lobster  Curry.  [Idem.]  Lay  the  meat,  not  too 
small,  in  a  pan,  with  real  gravy  and  cream  at  discretion, 
following  the  rules  of  art  and  good  taste.  The  excellence 
of  any  dish  depends  upon  this  and  the  high  class  of  the 
material  used ;  bad  curry-powder,  and  stale  lobster,  with 
thin  cream,  cannot  possibly  produce  the  desired  effect 
Then  rub  with  butter  two  teaspoonfiils  of  curry-powder 
— ^if  not  powerfiil,  three :  put  them  into  a  pan  and  sim- 
mer for  an  hour,  adding  a  soupfon  of  cayenne  and  salt 
Half  a  glass  of  first-rate  sherry  or  madeira  will  add  to 
the  aroma.    A  lobster  curry  may,  however,  be  excellent 


298 

without  the  addition  of  any  yinons  or  other  excitement. 
Some  add  maoe  and  lemon,  and  perhaps  they  are  right. 
If  so,  I  am  wrong :  I  eschew  them. 

.All  lohster  carries  are  based  on  the  goodness  of  the 
materials,  the  groundwork  being  a  fresh  lobster,  good 
thick  cream,  and  first-rate  cony-powder,  with  the  hand 
of  art  to  mix. 

A  Gratin  of  Lobster,  A  [Idem],  is  an  artistic  dish, 
requiring  genius,  thought,  and  consideration  to  make  it 
presentable  at  a  table  where  refinement  of  eating  takes 
the  place  of  gluttony,  or  the  mere  satisfying  the  appetite  ; 
while  beauty  reigns  at  the  board,  and  conversation  vies 
with  the  sparkling  champagne.   It  may  be  thus  produced  : 

Procure  the  finest  and  freshest  of  lobsters  possible ; 
cut  it  in  halves,  detaching  the  head  from  the  body ;  take 
out  all  the  meat,  and  save  the  shells ;  cut  the  meat  into 
slices,  then  put  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  shallots  in  a 
stew-pan,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  two  walnuts  ; 
pass  them  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire ;  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  flour,  well  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  stir 
over  the  fire,  boiling  about  five  minutes.  Then  add  the 
lobster,  which  season  with  a  little  cayenne,  salt,  chopped 
parsley,  and  essence  of  anchovies.  Set  it  again  on  the 
fire,  stirring  until  boiling ;  then  stir  in  the  yolk  of  an 
egg ;  take  off  the  fire ;  fill  the  shells  of  the  lobster ; 
sprinkle  bread-crumbs  over  it,  with  a  little  butter ;  put 
in  the  oven  twenty  minutes,  and  serve.  To  give  it  a 
nice  colour,  use  tlie  salamander. 

No  one  ought  to  sit  down  before  this  dish  without 
care  and  the  power  of  abstaining. 


Grratin  of  Lobster j  B.  Split  the  lobster  down  its 
whole  length,  if  possible,  withoat  detaching  the  shell  of 
the  head  from  that  of  the  tail. 

Pick  out  all  the  white  meat  of  the  body  (not  the  tail) 
and  the  claws;  mix  it  with  the  green  curd,  and  the 
coral  (if  any)  minced  fine,  and  the  spawn  (first  well 
washed,  and  then  crushed  in  a  mortar).  Put  these  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  bit  of  butter,  a  dust  of  flour,  pepper, 
pounded  mace,  a  glass  of  good  red  wine,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  essence  of  anchovies.  Slice  the  two  halves  of  the 
tail,  add  tliem  to  the  above,  and  warm  together  over  th& 
fire,  stirring  carefully.  With  this  ragoiit  fill  the  two 
entire  half-shells  of  your  lobster.  Dust  bread-crumbs 
or  biscuit-raspings  over  all,  and  brown  in  a  brisk  oven^ 
or  under  a  salamander. 

N.B.  Cookery-Books  in  general  make  more  of  lob- 
ster-spawn than  it  is  worth.  It  is  almost  always  full  of 
sand  or  grit,  wliich  spoils  every  combination  into  which 
it  enters ;  and  to  get  rid  of  which,  it  is  obliged  to  be  so* 
thoroughly  and  repeatedly  washed,  that  the  little  flavour 
it  has  is  washed  out  of  it  too.  It  is  then  good  only 
to  please  the  eye,  plague  the  teeth,  and  defy  the  diges- 
tion. 

Boasted  Lobster.  Boil  your  lobster  until  half  done ;. 
take  it  out  of  the  water,  and  as  soon  as  it  has  drained,, 
and  the  shell  is  dry,  rub  it  all  over  with  sweet  fresh 
butter.  Set  it  in  an  American  oven  before  the  fire,  and 
continue  basting  with  butter  until  enougli.  For  sauce^ 
take  the  butter  left  in  the  latch-pan,  and  mix  with  it  a 
little  mustard  and  vinegar. 


300  yiBH. 

Shrimps  and  Prawns^  like  lobsters,  are  often  spoiled 
by  French  cooks  with  their  court-bouiUon,  which,  m 
consequence  of  their  small  size,  penetrates  their  flesh 
more  thoroughly. 

Wash  and  pick  them  over  carefully,  to  get  lid  of 
foreign  substances.  Throw  them,  alive,  into  boiling  salt 
and  water.  K  sea-water  is  used,  it  must  first  stand  to 
settle.  Let  them  boil  about  ten  minutes,  skimming 
well.  Take  out  two  or  three  with  a  spoon,  to  try  if  they 
are  enough. 


XQOS:  DIGESTIBLE.  301 


IX. 

EGGS. 

I.  DIGESTIBLE. 

JEcfGS  on  their  DisL  Heat  in  tho  oven  of  your  cook- 
ing-stove, or  in  an  American  oven,  a  large  dinner-plate 
or  small  dish.  Smear  it  well  with  a  lump  of  sweet  butter, 
the  remains  of  which  you  may  leave  to  melt  in  the  dish. 
Then  break  into  it  very  carefully,  and  one  by  one,  so  as 
not  to  break  tho  yolks,  as  many  eggs  as,  lying  side  by 
side,  and  not  one  upon  the  otlier,  will  fill  the  dish  inside 
its  rim.  Sprinkle  over  each  egg  a  dust  of  pepper  and 
salt,  and  return  it  to  the  oven,  which  must  not  be  fierce. 
Watch  its  progress ;  as  soon  as  all  the  whites  are  set,  it 
is  done.  A  few  moments  under  a  red-hot  salamander 
insures  the  eggs  being  cooked  as  completely  at  their 
upper  as  at  their  under  surface.  Serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  the  eggs  are  cooked,  placed  in  another,  or  on  a 
small  tray  or  heat-proof  mat.  They  will  take  from  six 
to  ten  minutes. 

To  Boil  Eggs  for  Weak  Stcmmclis,  Put  the  eggs 
gently,  with  a  spoon,  into  a  deep  saucepan  nearly 
fall  of  water  on  the  point  of  boiling.  Let  them  boil ; 
take  them  off  the  fire  immediately,  and  let  them  stand 
on  the  side  of  the  stove  for  five  minutes  firom  the  time 


302  EGGS:   DIGESTIBLE. 

of  first  putting  them  in.  So  done,  they  will  be  hard 
nowhere  and  raw  nowhere.  Eggs  dropped  into  boiling 
water,  and  kept  galloping  three  minutes  and  a  half, 
or  egg-glass  time,  will  have  the  coating  of  white  next 
the  shell  hxirdj  while  their  centre  is  raw.  Strong 
stomachs  may  indulge  in  boiled  eggs  which  (if  they  were 
round)  would  serve  for  billiard-balls :  or  they  may  go 
to  the  hen-house,  and  enjoy  them  as  offered  by  the  hen ; 
but  either  of  those  states  are  too  heavy  for  the  invalid. 

I  have  seen  cooks  (Good  Plain)  cook  eggs  in  a 
pipkin,  with  just  enough  water  to  half-cover  them,  and 
whose  scanty  quantity  is  soon  still  further  diminished  by 
evaporation.  They  thus  solve  the  curious  problem, 
^^  How  to  serve  boiled  eggs  with  one  side  hard  and  the 
other  raw." 

Eggs  which  stand  upright  in  tlie  water  are  either 
not  fresh,  or  are  cracked  and  leaky.  They  may  be  used, 
perhaps,  in  salad  or  sauce,  but  cannot  appear  as  Boiled 
Eggs. 

Poached  Eggs.  Have  a  large,  deep  stew-pan,  three- 
parts  full  of  boiling  salt-and- water.  Crack  the  shells  of 
your  eggs,  one  by  one,  on  the  edge  of  the  stew-pan ;  hold 
them  over  the  boiling  water  and  close  to  its  surface,  open 
the  shell  adroitly  with  your  two  timmbs,  and  let  its  con- 
tents slip  into  the  water  in  as  entire  a  mass  as  possible. 
Keep  each  egg  separate  in  the  water,  to  prevent  their 
sticking  together.  If  the  yolk  of  an  egg  is  broken,  it  is 
spoilt  for  serving.  Take  off  the  scum  as  it  rises,  other- 
wise the  stew-pan  will  boil  over. 

Poached  eggs  require  some  nicety.     Their  whites 


egos:  digestible.  303 

must  be  more  set  than  in  eggs  boiled  or  in  eggs  on  their 
dish;  for  if  not  firm  enough^  they  will  have  a  sloppy 
appearance;  and  yet  the  yolks  should  not  be  hanL 
Take  out  with  a  fish-slice  or  skimmer,  in  which  let  them 
well  drain  before  serving ;  which  is  done  in  various  ways. 

Poached  eggs  may  be  laid  each  on  a  slice  of  buttered 
toast;  or  on  a  bed  of  chopped  cabbage  (early  York, 
Savoy,  or  red),  and  surrounded  with  boiled  sausages; 
or  on  a  mixture  of  sorrel  and  spinach,  trimmed  round 
with  toast  or  fried  bread-dice ;  or  seasoned  witli  pepper, 
vinegar,  and  butter. 

Matelote  of  Eggsy  or  Poaclied  Eggs  in  Wine.  Put 
into  a  stew-pan  a  pint  or  more  of  vin  ordmairey  or  of 
better  wine  diluted  with  water.  Add  pepper,  salt,  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion  sliced,  and  a  clove  of  garlic 
split  Boil  five  minutes,  remove  the  flavouring  ma- 
terials, and  poach  eight  or  ten  eggs  in  the  liquor,  as 
above.  When  done,  arrange  them  on  tlieir  dish. 
Thicken  the  liquor  by  continually  stirring  in  a  lump  of 
butter,  rubbed  into  a  spoonful  of  flour.  Let  it  just  boil 
up,  and  pour  it  over  the  eggs  by  way  of  sauce.  You 
may  add  a  few  shrimps,  shell-fish,  or  ready-cooked 
pieces  of  eel  or  other  fish. 

Maslied  Eggs,  Put  a  little  good  gravy  or  dripping 
fi'om  roast  beef,  veal,  or  pork,  or  a  little  good  soup,  or 
a  large  lump  of  butter,  into  a  stew-pan.  Throw  on 
the  top  of  this  five  or  six  eggs,  breaking  them  imme- 
diately with  a  fork,  and  stirring  constantly.  Season 
slightly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cook  quite  gently  and 
moderately. 


304  KOGS:   DIGESTIBLE. 

Wh3e  cooking,  a  few  bits  of  ready-cooked  vegetables 
. — such  as  green  peas,  asparagus-tops,  sprigs  of  cauli- 
flower, or  mushrooms,  or  a  little  chopped  parsley — ^may 
be  thrown  in. 

This  dish,  though  only  a  rudimental  omelette,  or  an 
excuse  for  one,  is  light,  agreeable,  and  readily  prepared. 
A  simpler  form  of  it  is — 

Egg  Toast,  Have  ready  some  hot  buttered  toast 
cut  into  quarters  of  rounds,  according  to  the  quantity 
required.  Put  a  saucepan  on  the  Are  with  some  butter 
in  it.  As  soon  as  melted,  for  a  small  dish  break  half  a 
dozen  eggs  into  the  saucepan,  with  a  little  salt,  and  stir 
them  well  with  a  fork,  all  the  while  they  are  on  the  fire, 
from  five  to  ten  minutes,  according  to  its  briskness. 
Lay  a  good  table-spoonful  of  the  eggs  on  each  piece  of 
toast,  and  serve. 

Fried  Eggs.  Have  your  deep  fiying-pan  half-full 
of  hot  fat  Drop  your  eggs  into  it,  as  for  poaching* 
They  will  cook  more  rapidly  than  in  water.  Eggs  fried 
in  a  shallow  pan,  with  a  scant  of  fat,  are  brown  under- 
neath, while  they  are  still  raw  above. 

For  fried  eggs  and  bacon,  fry  the  bacon  firstj  and 
then  tlie  eggs;  it  will  be  better  still,  if  you  can  grill  the 
rashers  of  bacon  or  ham  while  you  are  fiying  the  eggs. 

Eggs  Fried  in  Batter.  Poach  your  eggs  (not  hard)  ; 
set  them  aside  to  drain  and  cool  on  a  clean  napkin. 
Make  ready  your  deep  fiying-pan  ;  when  the  fat  is  hot, 
firy  enough  parsley  to  cover  the  bottom  of  your  dish. 
Dip  your  eggs  in  batter  with  a  spoon,  sprinkle  them 
slightly  with  fine-chopped  parsley,  and  fry.     When  a 


eggs:  digestible.  305 

nice  light  brown,  they  are  enough.  Arrange  them  on 
the  bed  of  fried  parsley,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  lemon- 
jnice.  N.B.  When  fried  eggs  are  wanted  for  garnish- 
ing (hashed  calf's  head,  sausages,  &c.),  they  ai'e  more 
sightly  done  in  this  way. 

Other  receipts  for  cooking  eggs  not  hard,  are  little 
more  than  variations  of  the  above.  Eggs  a  la  Bonne 
Femme — Good  Wonian^s  Eggs — are  Eggs  on  tJieir  Dish, 
surrounded  by  fried  sausages  and  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  vinegar.  Piedmontese  Eggs  are  the  same,  lying  on 
a  bed  of  bread-crumbs  and  thinly  sliced  cheese.  Pro^ 
rengal  Eggs  are  Poached  Eggs  with  garlic  and  anchovy 
sauce. 

Receipts  for  serving  Iiard  eggs  are  not  given  here, 
but  separately  by  themselves  at  the  end  of  the  Chapter, 
as  a  warning  that  they  are  better  suited  to  the  stomachs 
of  ostriches  tlian  of  invalids.  A  curious  fancy,  worthy 
of  the  olden  time,  is  the  making  of  a  Monster  Egg^  by 
separating  the  yolks  and  the  whites  of  a  number  of  eggs, 
cooking  all  the  former  together  in  a  bladder,  so  as  to 
form  one  big  yolk,  and  tlien  cooking  that  in  another 
bladder,  surrounded  by  all  the  whites.  Such  an  egg 
may  amuse  the  eye,  but  it  would  afford  but  little  amuse- 
ment eitlier  to  tlie  palate  or  the  stomach,  with  whatever 
sauce  it  may  be  sensed  surrounded. 

Clieesey  Eggs.  Take  a  piece  of  Gruyere,  Stilton, 
Cottenham,  or  other  good  white  cheese,  the  third  of  the 
weight  of  the  eggs  you  are  going  to  use,  and  half  its 
weight  of  butter.  Beat  up  the  eggs  in  a  stew-pan,  set 
it  on  the  fire,  throw  in  the  cheese  (grated  or  sliced  very 

X 


306  egos:  digestible. 

thin)  and  the  butter.  Season  with  pepper ;  the  addition 
of  salt  must  depend  upon  the  saltness  of  tlie  cheese. 
Keep  stirring  continually  until  the  whole  becomes  a  thick 
succulent  mass.  Serve  on  a  thin  slice  of  toast  on  a  hot 
dish.  N.B.  The  toast  may  be  very  thinly  spread  with 
essence  of  anchovy  or  potted  meat  or  fish. 

Eggs  and  Gravy — (Evfs  au  Jus,  I  was  one  day 
travelling  with  a  couple  of  ladies,  whom  I  was  conduct- 
ing to  Melun.  We  had  not  started  very  early  in  the 
morning,  and  we  reached  Montgeron  with  an  appetite 
which  threatened  to  clear  away  every  thing  before  it 

Vain  menaces !  The  inn  where  we  halted,  altliougk 
respectable  enough  in  outside  appearance,  did  not  con- 
tain a  scrap  of  provisions.  Three  diligences  and  twe 
post-chaises  had  passed  that  way,  and,  like  the  Egyptian 
locusts,  had  clean  devoured  ever}'-  thing.  So  said  the 
Clief^  the  Head  of  the  Kitchen — Anglic^y  Man-Cook. 

Nevertheless,  I  beheld  a  slowly  turning  spit  laden 
with  a  perfectly  comme  il  faut  leg  of  mutton,  at  which 
the  ladies,  out  o(  mere  habit,  directed  their  most  coquet- 
tish glances.  Tlieir  smiles,  alas  !  were  misdirected. 
The  mutton  belonged  to  three  Englishmen,  who  had 
brought  it  with  them,  and  who,  impatiently  waiting  for 
it,  were  beguiling  the  time  with  a  bottle  of  champagne. 

"  But  at  least,"  I  said  to  him,  with  an  air  of  com- 
bined annoyance  and  supplication,  "could  you  not  let 
us  have  these  few  eggs  done  in  the  mutton  gravy?  With- 
the  eggs  and  a  cup  of  cream-and-coffee,  we  will  tiy  and 
bear  our  lot  with  resignation." 

"With  all  my  heart,"  replied  the    Chef.     "The 


J 


EGGS:   DIGESTIBLE.  307 

gravy  is  my  perquisite  by  the  Law  of  Nations ;  I  will 
arrange  yonr  afiair  immediately."  So  saying,  he  set  to 
work  to  break  the  eggs  with  due  precaution. 

When  his  attention  was  otherwise  engaged,  I  stealthily 
drew  near  the  fire,  took  out  my  pocket  travelling  knife, 
and  inflicted  on  the  forbidden  mutton  a  dozen  deep 
wounds,  through  which  the  gravy  could  not  help  flowing 
to  the  very  last  drop.  I  followed  up  this  first  operation 
by  superintending  the  concoction  of  the  eggs,  lest  any 
little  accident  should  occur  to  our  prejudice.  As  soon 
as  they  were  done  to  a  nicety,  I  took  possession  of  them, 
and  carried  them  oif  to  the  room  where  our  table  was 
laid. 

There  we  enjoyed  our  impromptu  treat,  laughing  like 
mad  at  the  idea  that  we  were  in  reality  swallowing  the 
substance  of  the  mutton,  leaving  to  our  English  friends 
the  task  of  chewing  the  residue. — Brillat  Savarin. 

Scambled  Eggs  (American),  Put  in  a  spider  (a  sort 
of  fiying-pan)  enough  sweet  butter  to  oil  the  bottom  of 
the  pan.  Put  in  the  eggs  without  breaking  the  yolks. 
Add  a  bit  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut  for  every  dozen 
eggs;  season  with  very  little  salt  and  pepper.  When 
the  whites  harden  a  little,  stir  the  eggs  from  the  bottom 
of  the  spider,  and  continue  to  do  tliis  until  cooked  to 
suit  the  family.  When  done,  the  yolks  and  whites  should 
be  separate^  although  stirred  together — marbled,  in  fact 
— and  not  mixed  like  mashed  eggs. 

"  Preserved  Eggs,^  says  Cobbett,  "  are  thmgs  to  run 
from  J  not  after."  They  often  are  so ;  but  in  any  case 
many  dishes  which  cannot  be  made  without  eggs  are  not 


308  eggs:  digestible. 

things  to  run  from ;  and  therefore  preserved  eggs  must 
be  had,  unless  you  mean  to  disappoint  the  young  folk  of 
tlieir  Christmas  plum-pudding.  In  Norfolk,  eggs  are 
saved  from  putrefaction  by  immersion  in  lime-water,  to 
which  some  housewives  add  salt.  Cooks  say  they  answer 
their  purpose  ;  but  they  are  quite  uneatable  as  eggsj  and 
only  not  offermve  to  the  smell. 

R^umur's  experiments  with  varnish  appear  to  have 
succeeded ;  but  varnished  eggs  would  be  too  troublesome 
for  preserving  on  an  extensive  scale.  At  St  Kilda, 
where  the  inhabitants  subsist  on  the  eggs  of  sea-fowl 
during  several  months  of  the  year,  they  preserve  them  in 
stone  pyramids,  scattering  turf-ajshes  under  and  about 
them,  "  to  defend  them  from  the  Air,  dryness  being  tlieir 
only  Preservative,  and  moisture  tlieir  Consumption" 
(MartirCs  Voyage  to  tlie  Island  of  St,  KUda:  London, 
1698).  Later  travellers  inform  us  tliat  the  same  system 
still  continues  to  be  practised. 

The  shells  of  these  sea-birds'  eggs  are  more  fragile 
than  those  of  the  common  hen,  which  circumstance 
must  cause  them  to  be  more  difficult  to  preserve ;  and 
turf-ashes  clearly  make  a  sweeter  and  more  effectual 
packing  than  lime-water,  or  the  means  usually  adopted 
in  England.  But  they  are  only  to  be  had  in  certain 
localities;  and  wood-ashes  are  too  light,  and  cinder- 
ashes  too  loose,  to  exclude  the  air.  The  Lish  plan  of 
smearing  fresh-laid  eggs  with  butter  answers  well  for  a 
limited  time,  but  is  insufficient  to  keep  them  through  the 
winter.  The  method  I  have  found  to  succeed  best,  and 
recommend,  is  to  dip  each  egg  into  melted  pork-lard. 


eggs:  digestible.  309 

rubbing  it  into  the  shell  with  your  finger,  and  then  to 
pack  them  in  an  old  fig-drum  or  butter-firkin,  setting 
every  egg  upright,  ivith  the  small  end  downwards.  Eggs 
thus  prepared  in  August,  directly  after  harvest,  have 
been  boiled  and  eaten  with  relish  by  myself  and  family 
in  the  following  January.  They  were  not  like  the  eggs 
we  were  used  to  in  spring ;  but  they  were  much  better 
than  any  kept  eggs  we  could  buy. 

Omelettes,*  in  general,  are  composed  so  very  nearly 
of  eggs  alone  (with  the  addition  of  what  may  be  con- 
sidered mere  flavouring  matters),  that  their  place  is 
quite  as  appropriate  hero  as  amongst  Made  Dishes  or 
Sweets.  They  deserve,  however,  their  foil  share  of  atten- 
tion ;  for  they  are  light,  nutritious,  quickly  prepared ; 
and  few  things  are  more  likely  to  please  a  delicate 
appetite  than  a  nice,  hot,  juicy,  big-bellied  omelette, 
cooked  to  a  second. 

Plain  Omelette,  Break  into  a  bowl  as  many  eggs  as 
you  think  will  be  required ;  firom  six  to  eight  will  make 
a  convenient-sized  dish.  Season  them  with  fine  salt,  add 
a  little  water  or  milk,  and  beat  them  up  well.  The  more 
you  beat  them,  the  lighter  your  omelette  will  be.  Melt 
some  butter  in  a  frying-pan  or  omelette-pan — the  best 
utensil  for  the  purpose  is  one  of  the  French  coarse 
earthenware   stew-pans   or  casseroles^  which  are   lined 

*  The  etymology  of  the  word  omelette  has  puzzled  many.  (Euf 
(plural  cmfa)  is  French  for  *'  egg,"  and  miler  for  "  to  mix  or  mingle." 
Now,  in  a  Tolume  of  the  Thiatre  Italien,  printed  in  1692,  the  word  is 
spelt  ceumelette,  and  not  omelette,  evidently  meaning  aufs-meUt,  ^'  eggs 
mixed  together  ;'*  so  corresponding  with  the  definition  given  hy  the 
abbreviated  Dictionary  of  the  Academie :  **  Omelette ;  egg^  beaten 
together,  and  cooked  in  the  frying-pan  with  butter  or  bacon.'' 


t^S52Si^ 


e^^"^  .  .,v,J  ;n  exactly  lae  =»"-  .^^  eftDC 


f^tl^  cooked  m  e««^f J^^  ,,  ^^  o»e^  '^f^^ 

Ue-1  y^^  Cnot  too  much  doag^^  ^  ^^^^.^ 

-II  a-ioe  or  thin  shces.     ru^  **■  -jii 

j^to  smaU  dice_«  ^^^  g„vy,  ^» 

^"^''"""'^^ev    and  chive.    When  !«* 

^^(it  must  not  bod),  -fj^^^^.^ftt  into 
**:^  doubling  it  in  two,  put  y^  ^;  Redone  the 
^^ddle.     Other  kidney  omelettes  ma. 


EGGS:  DIGESTIBLE.  311 

Salmon  Omelette.  [This  excellent  formula  is  Brillat 
Savarin's  famous  Omelette  au  Thouy  acclimated  to  Great 
Britain  and  Ireland.]  Take,  for  six  persons,  two  carp 
{or  mackarel)  milts ;  wash  them  well  in  cold  water,  and 
then  plunge  them  for  five  minutes  into  boiling  water^ 
with  a  little  salt  in  it 

Take,  also,  a  piece  of  fresh-boiled  salmon  as  big  as  a 
hen's  egg ;  add  to  it  a  small  shallot  already  minced  to 
atoms.  Chop  up  the  milts  with  the  salmon,  so  as  to  mix 
them  well  together,  and  throw  the  whole  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  sufficiency  of  butter  to  sauter  them  until  the  butter 
is  melted,  and  no  more  tJmn  melted.  Herein  consists  the 
.speciality  of  the  omelette.     If  fried  or  boiled   in  the 

• 

butter,  they  are  hardened,  and  refuse  to  mingle  with  the 

Now  take  at  discretion  a  second  lump  of  butter  ; 
blend  it  with  chopped  parsley  and  chives,  or  green  spring 
onions ;  put  it  in  a  deep,  oval,  fish-shaped  dish,  which  is 
destined  to  receive  your  omelette;  pour  (not  squeeze) 
.some  lemon-juice  over  it,  and  set  the  dish  on  your  hot 
iron  plate,  or  on  hot  ashes. 

Beat  up  a  dozen  eggs  (the  fresher  the  better) ;  then 
■add  to  them  the  sautM  milts  and  salmon,  and  stir  until 
they  are  equally  mixed  together.  Then  cook  your 
omelette  in  the  usual  way,  doing  your  very  best  to  keep 
it  long,  thick,  soft,  spongy,  and  succulent.  Overdoing 
will  ruin  it.  Transfer  it  skilfully  to  the  hot  dish  prepared 
to  receive  it;  serve  at  once,  and  cause  it  to  be  eaten 
forthwith. 

This  dish  should  be  reserved  for  delicate  repasts,  for 


312  eggs:  digestible. 

meetings  of  amateurs  who  know  what  they  are  abont? 
and  who  never  eat  as  if  they  were  afraid  of  missing  the 
train.  Take,  on  the  top  of  it,  a  glass  of  good  old  wine, 
and  yoa  shall  see  what  you  shall  see — something 
delectable  and  marvellons. 

Cold'Fish  Omelette  (a  useful  formula,  on  account  of 
its  great  adaptability  and  versatility).  Warm  in  a 
saucepan  scraps  of  cold  turbot,  sole,  whiting,  lobster,  or 
any  other  delicate  fish,  with  any  remnant  you  may 
happen  to  have  of  anchovy,  lobster,  shrimp,  or  oyster 
sauce.  Let  there  be  only  just  enough  sauce  to  moiste^i 
the  fish,  not  to  flood  or  drown  it. 

As  in  the  preceding  receipt,  braid  up,  with  a  good- 
sized  lump  of  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  green 
spring  onions.  Put  it,  when  done,  into  a  deep  oval  dish, 
into  which  the  omelette  is  to  go ;  add  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  set  it  on  your  hot  plate,  to  melt  and  warm 
thoroughly. 

Put  the  yolks  of  a  dozen  eggs  into  one  bowl,  and  the 
whites  into  another.  Season  the  yolks  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  mixed  pepper  and  salt,  and  beat  them  up  well.  Then 
beat  up  the  whites  till  they  are  quite  in  a  fix)th.  Then 
mix  all  together,  whites  and  yolks.  By  this  method  the 
omelette  cannot  fail  to  be  light — a  most  important  point 

For  the  frying,  put  your  earthen  pan  on  the  fire, 
and  in  the  pan  a  lump  of  butter — a  pood  lump  of  butter, 
nearly  half  a  pound ;  you  need  not  waste  it  afterwards. 
"  You  can't  make  an  omelette  without  breaking  eggs,'* 
Raid  the  Duke  of  Malakofi^  when  he  took  the  Tower ; 
"  You  can't  frj'  an  omelette  without  melting  butter,"  the 


EGGS  :   DIGESTIBLE.        .  313 

Doctor  says.  Keep  your  omelette  stimng  in  tlie  bowl, 
and  as  soon  as  the  butter  is  hot  and  a  little  brown,  pour 
it  in.  Then  drive  your  locomotive  gently ;  don't  catch 
fire,  and  don't  stick  by  tlie  w^ay  at  the  edges.  Ease  it  up 
all  round  with  your  slice,  and  keep  it  shifting  from  side 
to  side,  and  backwards  and  forwards,  just  a  little.  It 
will  soon  be  of  a  bright  golden  colour  beneath,  although 
vou  cannot  see  its  under  surface.  It  should  now  be  as 
round  as  a  full  moon,  and  a  little  stifiPer  than  a  good  firm 
custard.  Put  in  the  middle  of  it,  with  a  spoon,  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  your  warmed-up  fish.  Then  double  it 
in  two,  so  as  to  make  it  into  a  half-moon.  Leave  it  a 
few  moments,  to  allow  the  two  surfaces  to  unite  at  their 
edges.  Remove  it  cleverly  into  your  hot  receiving  dish 
with  the  oiled  parsley  and  butter  at  the  bottom,  where  it 
should  present  the  inviting  appearance  of  a  plump,  light, 
juicy,  tender,  long-shaped,  savoury,  semi-solid  lump  of 
delicacy. 

Sweet  Omelette  J  A.  Beat  up  the  eggs  as  for  tlie 
Plain  Omelette,  previously  adding  to  them  finely  minced 
lemon-peel  and  powdered  lump-sugar.  Fry,  and  serve 
on  a  hot  dish,  well  dusted  with  powdered  sugar.  Then 
dust  the  omelette  itself  with  sugar;  set  it  under  the 
salamander  for  a  minute ;  or,  for  want  of  that,  crisp  its 
upper  surface  with  a  red-hot  shovel ;  or  score  it  in  lines, 
herring-bone  fashion,  by  a  red-hot  poker  held  close  to  it. 
This  omelette  may  also  be  flavoured  witli  orange-flower 
water,  rose-water,  noyau,  &c. 

Fruit-preserve  Omelette,  Proceed,  as  directed  for  the 
Sweet  Omelette ;  only,  before  beating  the  eggs,  add  to 


'314  eggs:  digestible. 

them  a  sufficiency  of  fruit-preserve  or  jam  to  give  flavour 
without  too  much  weakening  the  consistency.  Finish  off 
in  the  same  way. 

Strawberry  Omelette.  Beat  up  a  dozen  eggs,  whites 
.and  yolks  separately,  frothing  the  whites  as  for  the  cold- 
fish  omelette.  But  mix  with  the  yolks,  instead  of  salt,  a 
bumping  table-spoonful  of  pounded  lump-sugar.  Be- 
member  that,  as  pepper  and  salt  give  the  tone  to  a 
savoury  omelette,  so  sugar  gives  the  tone  to  a  preserve 
•or  fruit  omelette.  Fry  and  manipulate  as  with  the  Cold- 
Fish  Omelette.  At  ilie  proper  time,  put  into  it  a  liberal 
^allowance — four  bumping  spoonfuls — of  strawberry  jam, 
in  which  the  strawberries  are  whole.  Let  the  jam  lie  a 
minute  in  the  open  omelette  to  get  well  warm  through ; 
then  double  the  whole  into  a  half-moon,  keeping  the 
jam  well  tucked  up  inside.  Dish  it;  and  dust  it  well 
at  top  with  a  snow-shower  of  tlie  whitest  sugar  you 
have. 

Rum  Omelette.  Beat  a  dozen  eggs  exactly  as  before, 
•only  putting  an  extra  dose  of  sugar  to  the  yolks.  Fry, 
keeping  it  as  light  as  possible ;  for  this  omelette  ought  to 
melt  in  the  mouth,  stimulate  the  stomach,  and  calm  the 
nerves.  Heat  a  deeper  dish  than  the  one  used  for  the 
Strawberry  Omelette.  Warm  cautiously  in  a  pipkin  a 
tumbler  or  a  tumbler  and  half  of  the  best  old  Jamaica 
rum  until  it  is  lukewarm.  Double  the  omelette :  dish 
it;  dust  thickly  with  sugar;  slii)  it  under  the  red-hot 
salamander,  not  too  close  to  the  iron,  and  watch.  ^VTien 
the  dust  sugar  is  converted  into  an  orange-brown  crust 
of  sugar-barley,  it  is  done.     Just  outside  the  dining- 


eggs:  digestible.  315 

room  door,  pour  the  warm  rum  into  tho  dish,  set  fire  to 
it,  and  serve  blazing. 

Any  one  who  lias  made  and  succeeded  with  the 
above,  will  have  no  difficulty  in  executing  any  other 
omelette  from  the  mere  indication  of  its  contents.  Ome- 
lettes may  be  made  to  enclose  in  their  substance  preserved 
ginger  and  candied  citron-peel;  bacon  or  ham  cut  small; 
cheese ;  bread  cut  into  dice  and  fried ;  the  same  mixed 
with  shi'eds  of  anchovy  or  Yarmouth  bloaters ;  shrimps, 
prawns,  or  oysters;  asparagus-tops,  green  peas,  sorrel, 
and  other  vegetables,  either  singly  or  all  mixed  in  a 
ragoftt,  then  called  it  la  Jardiniire.  A  macedoine^  or 
medley,  of  omelettes,  consists  in  making — instead  of  one 
large  omelette  filled  witli  one  kind  of  preserve — several 
small  ones,  each  containing  a  different  kind  of  fruit-jam, 
4md  all  served  together  on  the  same  dish. 

Sweet  Omelette^  B  (English  receipt).  Beat  up  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  with  four  spoonfuls  of  cream ;  sweeten 
to  your  taste  with  fine  white  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  to 
a  strong  frotli ;  add  tliem  to  the  yolks,  and  mix  well  just 
before  you  are  going  to  fry.  When  well  set,  lay  on  the 
sweetmeat,  whatever  it  may  be;  such  as  preserved 
apricots,  raspberry  jam,  or  currant  jelly.  A  large  table- 
spoonful  will  be  sufficient  for  an  omelette  of  this  size.  It 
should  be  laid  on  in  a  lump  rather  than  spread  about. 
Fold  one  half  of  the  omelette  over  the  other,  as  if  you 
were  doubling  a  slice  of  bread-and-butter.  Dust  sugar 
over  it,  and  send  to  table  on  a  napkin.  N.B.  The 
quicker  an  omelette  is  made  and  cooked,  the  lighter  it 
is  sure  to  turn  out.      It  should  appear  on  the  table  tho 


316  EGOS:  DIGESTIBLE. 

instant  after  it  is  out  of  the  pan;  and  it  is  better  that  the 
guests  should  wait  two  minutes  for  it^  than  it  should  wait 
half  a  minute  for  them. 

Savoury  Omelette  (English).  Beat  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs ;  add  a  little  onion  chopped  very  fine,  and  a  little 
minced  parsley.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  strong  froth ; 
mix  all  together ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry. 
Double  it  in  two  when  nearly  enough ;  give  it  another 
minute's  firying,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish,  w*ith  a  little 
good  gravy  poured  over  it 

Savoury  omelettes,  as  has  been  suggested,  may  be 
varied  to  a  great  extent  They  may  be  flavoured  with 
different  kinds  of  herbs,  such  as  a  few  pinches  of  dried 
and  powdered  sage,  or  knotted  marjoram  and  sweet 
basil,  or  chives  and  chervil  minced  exceedingly  fine 
together,  instead  of  onions  and  parsley.  Or,  leaving 
out  the  herbs  entirely,  the  omelette  may  contain  cold 
veal  or  other  meat  cut  into  dice.  Minced  meat  is  less 
commonly  used  than  herbs,  but  is  oft«n  convenient  to 
make  a  change  for  persons  who  require  a  light,  nutritious 
diet. 

Omelette  Sovfflie,  The  success  of  this  will  mainly  de- 
pend on  the  beating  of  the  eggs,  and  the  steady  briskness 
of  the  oven.  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  half  a 
dozen  eggs.  Flavour  the  yolks  with  orange-flower  water, 
vanilla,  or  any  thing  else  that  is  delicate ;  sweeten  with 
sugar  rubbed  on  the  rind  of  a  lemon ;  add  a  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  a  table-spoonful  of  cream,  and  beat 
all  welL  Next  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth,  and  mix  the 
whole  together  lightly. 


eggs:  digestible.  317 

Have  ready  a  deep,  open  dish  battered  in  the  inside — 
a  silver  or  plated  one  is  the  best,  because  the  souffle 
must  be  served  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked — pour 
in  your  omelette ;  set  it  in  the  oven  immediately.  When 
well  raised  and ,  browned,  it  is  ready,  and  must  be 
instantly  transferred  to  the  dining-table,  previously 
dusted  with  sugar,  for  you  can  see  it  fall  with  every 
moment's  delay.  Indeed,  the  grand  merit  of  an  omelette 
soufflde  consists  less  in  its  flavour  (which  should  be 
slight)  than  its  hotness  and  puffy,  swollen  proportions. 
The  Parisian  restaurants  require  at  least  twenty  minutes' 
notice  before  serving  this  particular  dish. 

Eggs  a  la  Neige^  or  Snowy  Eggs.  Put  a  pint  of  milk 
into  a  wide,  shallow  stew-pan,  with  three  ounces  of  lump- 
sugar.  Flavour  with  vanilla,  or  with  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  orange-flower  water,  or  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  rose 
water.  When  on  the  point  of  boiling,  set  it  aside  on 
your  cooking-stove,  keeping  it  hot 

Take  half  a  dozen  eggs ;  put  the  whites  into  one  bowl 
and  the  yolks  into  anoilier.  Sprinkle  a  little  powdered 
lump-sugar  on  the  whites,  and  beat  them  with  a  whisk 
(either  of  tinned  iron  wire  or  of  white  osier-twigs— even 
a  fork  will  do)  until  they  rise  into  a  strong,  stiff  froth. 
It  is  with  this  frotli  tliat  you  are  to  make  your  snow. 
In  summer,  beat  it  in  the  coolest  convenient  place. 

Have  ready  at  hand  (cold)  the  large  flat  porcelain 
dish  in  which  your  Eggs  a  la  Jfeige  are  to  be  served. 

Set  your  stew-pan  witli  the  milk  on  the  fire  again. 
When  near  the  boiling  point,  throw  into  it,  one  by  one, 
large  table-spoonfuls  of  your  frothed  white  of  eggs.    The 


319  EGGS:   INDIGESTIBLE. 

bigger  you  can  make  them,  to  keep  together,  the  more- 
effective  will  be  the  appearance  of  your  dish.  Turn 
them  over  in  the  hot  milk  with  a  ladle  or  fish-slice  kept 
for  the  purpose,  so  as  to  cook  their  whole  surface  regularly 
throughout.  When  done,  take  up,  a^d  arrange  them 
neatly  on  your  porcelain  dish,  leaving  small  spaces 
between  each  lump  or  pile  of  snow. 

Lastly,  break  up  your  yolks,  diluting  them  with  a 
spoonful  or  two  of  milk,  and  with  them  gradually 
thicken  the  milk  remaining  in  your  saucepan,  stirring 
well  to  prevent  knots,  and  not  allowing  it  to  boil,  in  order 
to  avoid  "  quailing"  and  hardening  of  the  yolk. 

Pour  this,  not  overj  but  between  your  lumps  of  snowy 
eggs,  which  should  represent  icebergs  standing  amidst 
a  yellow  sea.  The  whole,  nicely  executed,  makes  an 
ornamental  sweet  or  supper  dish,  very  agreeable  to  most 
palates,  as  well  as  light  and  easy  of  digestion.  With  care 
and  neatness,  it  is  not  difficult  to  make,  and  is  an 
elegant  addition  either  to  a  third  course  or  to  a  supper. 
A  dozen  eggs  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar  are  commonly 
used  for  a  pint  of  milk. 


2.  INDIGESTIBLE. 

Eggs  stuffed  toith  Anchovies,  Boil  hard  as  many  eggs  as- 
you  want,  not  forgetting  the  American  hint  to  boil  them 
an  hour.  When  cold  and  shelled,  cut  them  in  two  in 
tlie  direction  of  their  length;  take  out  the  yolks,  ar- 
range the  halved  whites,  with  their  hollows  uppermost^ 
on  the  dish  on  which  they  are  to  be  served. 


eggs:  ikdiqestible.  319' 

For  each  egg  take  one  anchovy ;  scrape  off  the  scales, 
and  strip  the  flesh  from  the  bones.  Chop  the  flesh  very- 
small  ;  mix  it  thoroughly  with  the  egg-yolks  crushed ; 
put  this  mixture  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  lump  of  butter 
melted  at  the  bottom,  and  stir  till  it  has  imbibed  tho 
butter.  Fill  the  hollows  of  the  whites  of  es&  with  this 
mixture,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

Some  kind  of  sauce  may  be  poured  over  the  whole,, 
such  as  Dutch  Sauce,  or  Parsley  and  Butter. 

Effff8  stuffed  tcith  Parsley  are  prepared  exactly  as 
above,  except  that  chopped  parsley  is  substituted  for  the 
anchovies,  and  pepper  and  salt  are  added. 

Effffs  vnth  Tomato  Sauce,  or  White  Sauce.  Cut  hard- 
boiled  eggs  into  halves  or  quarters ;  arrange  them  on  a 
dish,  and  pour  over  them  Tomato  Sauce,  or  White 
Sauce. 

Eggs  a  VAllemande — German  fasliioru  Put  a  largo- 
tumbler  of  milk  into  a  saucepan,  with  butter,  pepper, 
salt,  and  chopped  parsley.  Give  it  a  boil  up,  and  then^ 
throw  in  hard  eggs  cut  across  in  slices.  Let  tliem  stew 
ten  minutes,  and  serve. 

Eggs  a  la  Tripe — Tripe  fashion.  Fry  chopped  onions 
brown  in  butter  and  flour,  and  then  dilute  with  a  little* 
good  stock.  When  the  onions  are  cooked,  put  in  hard 
eggs  cut  in  slices;  let  them  sauter;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  a  dash  of  vinegar,  and  serve. 

Curried  Eggs.  Fry  sliced  onions  brown  in  butter, 
add  a  dust  of  flour,  and  dilute  with  stock. 

Put  into  a  basin  a  table-spoonful  of  curry-powder 
and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  arrowroot    Gradually  stir  intO' 


320  EGGS:   INDIGESTIBLE. 

this  some  milk  or  cream  until  it  is  of  tlie  thickness  of 
batter.  Work  this  up  smoothly  with  tlie  fried  onions, 
regulating  with  stock  tlie  quantity  and  consistency  of  the 
whole.  When  all  is  nicely  blended,  warm  up  in  it  your 
hard-boiled  eggs,  which  may  be  either  whole,  halved, 
quartered,  or  sliced.  The  best  appearance  will  be  given 
to  the  dish  by  a  judicious  proportion  of  all  those  forms. 
When  they  are  nicely  arranged  or  piled,  the  curry  ragoClt 
can  be  poured  over  them. 

Curried  eggs  ought  to  be  accompanied  by  a  dish  of 
boiled  rice,  if  only  to  give  the  stomach  something  to  feed 
upon. 

Eggs  a  la  Poulette.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  a  tumbler 
of  milk,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley.  Boil  up,  and,  ten  minutes  before  you 
want  to  serve,  throw  in  hard  eggs  cut  across  in  slices. 
A  few  button  mushrooms  are  a  nice  addition  ;  you  may 
also  put  in  from  the  first  an  onion  or  two,  which  you  will 
take  out  before  servmg. 

Take  up  the  sUces  of  egg  witli  a  spoon  :  arrange  them 
on  tlie  dish ;  thicken  the  sauce  with  a  dust  of  arrowroot, 
and  pour  it  over  them. 

Eggs  a  la  Mattre  iV Hotels  A.  Cut  hard  eggs  in 
quarters ;  arrange  them  in  a  dish  that  will  stand  die  fire ; 
put  bits  of  butter  amongst  them  here  and  there.  Chop 
some  parsley,  with  which  may  be  mixed  a  small  propor- 
tion of  tarragon,  chervil,  or  chives ;  sprinkle  it  over  the 
eggs,  with  pepper  and  salt  Set  the  dish  on  tlie  hot  plate 
or  in  a  gentle  oven,  till  the  butter  is  completely  melted 
and  warmed,  and  turn  the  eggs  without  breaking  them. 


EOGS:    INDIQESTIBLIL  321 

EggB  a  la  Mattre  d^Hotel^  B.  Make  a  T»hite  roux, 
and  cook  in  it  some  chopped  onions,  without  letting 
them  brown ;  or  take  some  white  sauce  made  of  flour, 
milk,  and  butter,  and  cook  the  onions  in  that,  seasoning 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Throw  in  a  little  fine-chopped 
parsley  (let  the  sauce  be  quite  hot  when  this  is  done) ; 
add  a  fresh  lump  of  butter,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
When  these  are  well  blended,  warm  up  in  them  the  hard 
eggs  cut  in  pieces,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

Eggs  a  VAurcre — Dagmar^  or  Daybreak  Eggs;  perhaps 
from  their  golden  or  orange-brown  colour.  Boil  a*  dozen 
eggs  hard ;  when  cold,  take  off  the  shells,  and  cut  them 
in  halves.  Take  out  the  yolks,  and  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  with  three  raw  yolks,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter ;  add  pepper  and  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  grated 
crumb  of  bread,  and  enough  cream  to  moisten  them. 

Fill  the  empty  whites  of  egg  with  this  stufiBng  in 
such  a  way  that  the  cut  surface  shall  be  entirely  covered ; 
butter  the  bottom  of  a  dish  that  will  stand  the  fire,  and 
cover  it  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  stufiing ;  on  this  arrange 
your  half-eggs,  with  the  convex  or  round  part  down- 
wards ;  heat  up  in  a  gentle  oven,  and  colour  the  upper 
surface  brightly  under  a  salamander.  You  may  encircle 
the  dish,  as  garnishing,  with  little  patties,  small  strips  of 
toast,  or  fried  pai*sley. 

Eggs  en  Surprise — Eggs  Surprised.  Poach  your  eggs 
in  water,  without  doing  them  hard ;  then  let  them  steep 
for  several  hours  in  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  chopped 
parsley. 

When  wanted,  take  them  out  to  drain ;  dip  them  ia. 

Y 


322  Boas:  indiobstible. 

frying  batter  (p.  75) ;  sprinkle  them  with  stale  bread- 
crumbs, crushed  biscuit,  or  French  roll-raspings;  fry 
them  two  or  three  at  a  time  in  a  deep  pan  with  plenty 
of  hot  fat,  till  they  are  a  light  bright  brown,  and  serve 
on  a  bed  of  fried  parsley. 

This  dish,  if  careftdly  managed,  need  not  be  so  very 
hard  or  indigestible ;  it  is,  moreover,  convenient  and 
nice-looking,  t/*  delicately  executed. 

Eggs  au  Surprise — Surprising  Eggs.  The  number  of 
eggs  must  depend  on  the  size  of  your  dish ;  a  dozen  will 
be  enough  for  a  party  of  eight  or  ten.  Boil  them  hard, 
cut  them  in  halves,  take  out  the  yolks,  which  pound  in 
a  mortar  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  cream, 
pepper  and  salt,  grated  nutmeg,  a  very  few  bread- 
crumbs, and  two  raw  eggs. 

Then  pare  out  the  insides  of  the  whites,  till  they  are 
as  thin  as  they  will  hold  together  without  breaking; 
save  these  parings.  Fill  half  the  number  of  the  hollowed 
whites  with  the  above  prepared  stuffing.  Mix  fine- 
chopped  parsley  with  what  remains,  and  with  it  fill  the 
rest  of  the  whites. 

Chop  the  parings  of  the  hollowed  whites,  and  mix 
tliem  with  the  remainder  of  the  stuffing,  which  lay  as  a 
bed  or  a  mound  at  the  bottom  of  a  metal  or  earthenware 
dish  that  will  stand  the  fire. 

Clap  together,  two  by  two,  the  difierently  stuffi3d 
half-eggs,  making  them  apparently  whole  again;  and 
arrange  them  symmetrically  on  the  mound  of  stuffing. 
Set  tliem  into  a  gentle  oven,  and  serve  as  soon  as  they 
are  well  hot  through. 


eggs:  indigestible.  323 

Egg  Piesy  Penitential^  for  Lent.  Boil  a  dozen  eggs 
hard,  and  chop  them  fine.  Add  to  them  abont  the  same 
weight  (in  all)  of  butter,  sugar,  well- washed  currants, 
and  bread-crumbs.  Moisten  with  white  wine,  and  season 
with  pounded  cinnamon  and  mace.  These  Egg  Pies 
may  be  made  like  mince  pies,  in  larger  or  smaller  patty- 
pans. 

JEgg  Patties.  Crush  the  yolks  and  mince  the  whites 
of  half  a  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs.  Mix  these  thoroughly 
with  the  crumb  of  a  penny  roll  soaked  in  milk  or  eream, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  fine- 
chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  or  other  spice  to 
taste.  Beat  all  these  together  till  they  form  a  tolerably 
liquid  paste,  which  can  be  diluted  with  cream,  if  too  stifil 

Put  a  sufiicient  quantity  of  this  mixture  into  tartlets 
or  patties  made  of  pufi'-paste,  and  bake  in  a  smart  oven. 

Hard  Eggs  in  Clear  Jelly.  Common  eggs,  like  those 
of  the  hen,  will  rarely  be  served  with  the  honours  of 
Jelly,  which  will  be  reserved  for  those  of  the  Guinea 
fowl,  the  plover,  the  rook,  the  sea-gull,  the  water-hen, 
and  such-like  oval  delicacies — the  whites  of  several  of 
which  remain  semi-transparent  after  boiling. 

A  clear  jelly,  rather  highly  seasoned,  is  made  with 
calves*  or  pigs'  feet.  With  this,  a  mould  is  partially 
filled ;  when  cold,  the  hard  eggs  are  arranged  in  the  jelly, 
and  more  liquid  jelly  poured  over  them.  If  tlie  mould 
be  large  enough,  there  may  be  two  strata  of  eggs.  Let 
stand  (all  night,  or  longer)  till  the  jelly  has  got  quite 
firm  and  cold.  To  turn  it  out,  dip  the  mould  for  an 
instant  into  a  bucket  of  hot  water. 


324  eggs:  indigestible. 

Hard  Egg  SandwicJies  speak  for  themselves.  The 
slices  of  egg  may  be  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
relieved  with  a  slight  spread  of  essence  of  anchovy.  A 
few  bits  of  cress  (garden  or  water)  will  also  help  them. 
But,  of  all  known  sandwiches,  those  of  hard  egg  are, 
perhaps,  the  worst — ^not  even  excepting  the  five-pound 
note  which  the  sailor  at  Portsmouth  ate  between  bread- 
and-butter. 


HADE  DISHES.  325 


MADE  DISHES. 

A  DISTINGUISHED  French  Ex-OfBcer  of  the  Mouth  has 
defined  Mora  dCCEuvre  to  be  a  kitchen  term  applied  to 
every  dish  which  people  can  do  without,  without  in- 
juriously affecting  the  service  of  a  dinner.  It  is,  in 
fact,  <m  unnecessary.  Cooks  admit  that  you  can  dine 
without  it  quite  as  well;  doctors  may  be  inclined  to 
think  better. 

The  same  may  be  said  of  Made  Dishes  (EntrdeSj  as 
they  are  called,  in  the  classical  language  of  cookery) ; 
they  are  interludes,  divertiasements,  between  the  serious 
acts  of  the  real  evening's  performance.  Those  who  are 
assembled  with  the  full  intention  of  mainly  occupying 
themselves  with  it^  will  be  wise  in  paying  but  slight 
attention  to  the  charms  of  its  minor  accessories. 

Nevertheless,  Mado  Dishes  are  valuable  as  a  means 
of  enabling  cooked  food  to  reappear  in  a  novel  and 
economical  form ;  they  will  often  serve  as  the  basis  of  a 
dinner,  on  quiet  family  occasions,  hasty  visits,  friendly 
and  unceremonious  meetings,  and,  above  all,  for  invalids, 
sedentary  people,  and  patients  recovering  from  a  sharp 
stroke  of  illness.  Large  joints,  cut-and-come-again 
pieces,  are  quite  inappropriate  to  set  before  them;  they 
want  something  light  and  tasty,  which  shall  excite  them 


326  liADE  DISHES. 

to  eat  a  little^  without  making  them  feel  afterwards  a» 
if  they  had  eaten  too  much.  For  it  cannot  be  too  often 
repeated,  that  the  benefit  derived  from  food  depends 
not  so  much  on  the  quantity  of  nutriment  it  contains^  as 
on  the  facility  with  which  that  nutriment  is  digested. 
Take  Beef  Tea,  for  instance ;  the  weight  and  bulk  of  the 
aliment  we  are  able  to  find  in  it  is  very  small  indeed^ 
and  yet,  because  it  is  easily  assimilated,  patients  gain 
strength  by  taking  it,  who  would  be  thrown  back  on 
their  bed  of  sickness  by  an  equal  dose  of  strong  Mock- 
Turtle  or  Ox-Tail  Soup,  containing  twenty  times  the 
amount  of  nutritive  matters. 

The  present  chapter  will  not  contain  a  long  list  of 
Made  Dishes,  because  they  will  be  found  scattered  up 
and  down  the  work,  under  the  heads  of  the  elements  of 
which  they  are  principally  composed.     A  few,  however^ 
which  bear  the  mark  of  their  own  special  individuality^ 
must  be  given,  if  only  to  show  what  may  be  done  in 
this  line — ^for  every  body  seems  to  like  Made  Dishes, 
nicely  prepared.      From  the  weekly   Scrap-and-Bone 
Pie  at  boarding-school,  to  the  elegant  French  kickshaws 
a  la  Something-or^othery  the  seasoning  and  the  stewing 
transmutes  offal  into  delicacies;  it  is  the  sauce  which 
causes  the  coarse  fish  to  be  eaten.     As  the  Cardinal 
said,  when  afterwards  told  that  he  had  eaten  a  bit  of 
rope,  believing  it  lamprey :  "  Never  mind ;  it's  all  one 
to  mo.     With  the  same  sauce,  I'd  eat  another." 

In  proof  of  the  favour  and  popularity  which  Made 
Dishes  deservedly  enjoy,  we  have  only  to  adduce  tho 
fact  that  many  of  them  are  also  National  Dishes,  the 


HADE  DISHBS  327 

babitual  fare  of  millions  of  men.  Witness  the  Irish 
Stews ;  the  Scotch  Brose ;  Sheep's  Head  and  Trotters, 
and  Haggis ;  the  OUa  Podridas  of  Spain  ;  the  Curries  of 
India,  and  numerons  others. 

The  PiUawy  for  instance,  is  the  national  dish  of 
the  Persian,  whom  the  Quarterly  Review  considers  the 
Frenchman  of  the  East,  as  far  as  cookery  is  concerned. 
Nor  is  it  surprising  that  he  should  succeed  in  this  art, 
when  princesses  study  it,  and  are  in  the  habit  of  bestow- 
ing upon  favoured  guests  the  triumphs  of  their  skill. 

The  Persian  Pillaw  is  a  dish  of  world-wide  reputa- 
tion ;  even  their  bitterest  enemies,  the  Osmanli,  admit 
its  merit  It  is  simply  a  dish  of  boiled  rice,  over  which 
is  poured  melted  butter  or  fat  (^^  chillaw"  is  rice  boiled 
simply),  eaten  with  some  preparation  of  meat  or  vege- 
tables. Consequently,  the  variety  of  pillaws  is  great; 
but  the  art — and  one  hitherto  unattained,  we  are  told, 
by  either  Turkish  or  European  skill — consists  in  the 
boiling  of  the  rice  and  the  mixture  of  the  melted  butter. 
The  process  is  probably  as  simple  as  that  of  boiling  a 
plum-pudding — a  secret  which,  somehow  or  another, 
does  not  appear  to  have  been  widely  divulged  on  the 
other  side  of  the  Channel.  Some  French  pastry-cooks 
still  obstinately  insist  that  haked  plum-pudding  is  tlie 
right  thing. 

In  the  dinners  of  the  more  refined  inhabitants  of 
Persian  towns,  a  great  variety  of  excellent  stews,  sea- 
soned with  sauces  (amongst  which  is  a  delicious  prepa- 
ration of  the  juice  of  the  pomegranate),  accompany  the 
boiled  rice,  served,  however,  to  the  guests  on  separate 


328  KABS  DISHES. 

plates.  The  tribes  and  the  poorer  classes  content  them- 
selves with  meat  or  fowls,  plainly  boiled,  and  placed  in 
the  centre  of  the  steaming  pillaw.  Sometimes,  on  great 
occasions,  almonds  and  raisins  are  mixed  with  the  rice. 
The  chiefs  have  huge  platters,  which  two  men  can 
scarcely  cany,  in  which  the  lamb,  roasted  whole,  rests 
on  a  bed  of  pillaw.  This  is  a  festive  dish,  when  the 
reception-hall  is  full  of  honoured  guests.  Sometimes,  a 
monumental  pillaw,  of  prodigious  proportions,  is  brought 
into  the  room,  and  set  before  the  guests  by  half  a  dozen 
men.  In  the  centre  of  a  mountain  of  rice,  stained  a 
bright  yellow  by  saffiron,  is  a  sheep,  roasted  whole.  The 
pillaw  itself  is  a  blaze  of  light,  thrown  out  by  little 
wicks  of  cotton,  floating  in  melted  butter,  contained  in 
half-oranges,  with  their  inside  scooped  out  This  is 
considered  a  triumph  of  cookery. 

Pillaw  J  of  more  modest  and  possible  proportions  than 
the  above.  Cut  up  a  pound  of  breast  of  mutton  into 
small  pieces,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  into 
dice.  Brown  them  in  a  stew-pan  in  fresh  butter,  and 
then  add  gradually  a  quart  of  water ;  let  it  stew  until 
the  mutton  is  half  done.  Then  add  a  quarter  of  a  pomid 
of  well-washed  rice,  tliat  has  been  previously  steeped, 
with  pepper,  salt,  cayenne,  and  bouquet  complete.  Let 
all  simmer  together  gently,  until  the  rice  is  tender,  and 
your  ragoiit  thick  enough  to  allow  of  its  being  piled  on 
the  dish  in  a  heap. 

Surround  this  central  pyramid  of  pillaw  with  several 
small  ones,  containing  different  kinds  of  meats  (as  fowl, 
pork,  duck,  veal),  and  diversely  coloured ;  yellow,  with 


MADE  DI8HES.  329 

saffron  or  turmeric;    green,  with  spinach -juice;   and 
red,  with  cochineal  or  beetroot-juice. 

Turkish  PillcLWy  with  Meat  Take  one  measure  of 
rice  (well  washed  in  tepid  water),  and  three  measures  of 
good  broth ;  set  them  over  a  brisk  fire,  in  a  stew-pan 
with  a  close-fitting  lid.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  steep 
two  or  three  threads  of  saffron  (yery  little  suffices  to 
give  as  much  flavour  as  English  palates  can  bear)  in  a 
teacupful  of  warm  broth ;  when  well  infused,  pour  it 
into  your  stew-pan,  and  let  all  boil,  closely  covered. 

When  the  rice  is  cooked,  spread  it  on  the  dish.  On 
this,  lay  a  stratum  of  ragodt  of  any  meat,  or  fowl,  or 
game,  you  have.  Cover  with  a  stratum  of  plain-boiled 
rice,  and  pour  over  the  whole  a  table-spoonful  of  fresh 
butter,  oiled. 

Meager  PUlaw.  To  one  measure  of  well-washed 
rice,  put  three  measures  of  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Omit  the  saffron,  and  boil  till  enough.  Strain  the  rice, 
and  spread  it  on  the  dish.  On  tliis,  lay  a  stratum  of 
mixed  vegetables  (whatever  is  in  season),  made  into  a 
ragoiit,  thickened  with  cgg-yolk,  and  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne.  Cover  with  a  stratum  of 
plain-boiled  rice,  into  which  thrust  five  bits  of  butter  as 
big  as  filberts.  Glaze  the  top  with  white  of  egg ;  set 
the  dish  in  a  brisk  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

Vol^au'Vefit.  The  best  way  is  to  procure  the 
standing  puff-crust  from  a  pastry-cook,  making  its  in- 
tended contents  at  home.  For,  even  if  the  cook  succeed 
perfectly  with  her  puff-paste,  it  is  not  every  private 
family  who  possess  an  oven  suitable  for  baking  it  well. 


330  MADE  DISHES. 

Bakers'  ovens  glow  with  an  equal  heat ;  whereas  cook- 
ing-stove and  iron  ovens  give  out  more  heat  on  one  side 
than  on  the  other ;  so  that,  even  by  frequent  turning,  it 
requires  great  care  to  make  the  crust  rise  equally. 

Making  the  crust  of  the  Vol-au-Vent  is  one  of  the 
things  which  require  to  be  seen  done.  It  is  thus  per- 
formed. Boll  out  the  lightest  possible  puff-paste  to 
three-quarters  of,  or  one  inch  in  thickness.  Lay  it  on 
an  iron  oven-plate.  A  saucepan-lid  will  serve  to  cut 
out  the  required  circle.  Trim  away  the  rest  of  the 
paste,  which  will  serve  for  patties  or  garnishing.  Trace^ 
with  a  knife  heated  in  hot  water  (to  prevent  the  paste 
from  sticking  to  it),  a  smaller  inner  circle  within  it,  to 
form  the  lid  of  the  Vol-au-Vent,  leaving  an  edge  about 
an  inch  broad,  and  making  your  knife  penetrate  to 
neai'ly  half  the  thickness  of  the  paste.  The  surface  of 
the  whole  may  be  glazed  with  egg,  or  otherwise  deco- 
rated. Put  into  a  brisk  oven ;  when,  if  the  puff-paste 
has  been  well  made,  the  whole  ought  to  rise  to  the 
height  of  three  or  four  inches.  Wlien  well  risen,  and  of 
a  nice  light  brown,  take  out,  lift  tlie  cover  immediately, 
and  with  your  knife  remove  the  underdone  paste  or 
crumb  within,  leaving  the  hollow  which  is  to  receive 
your  ragoM,  and  taking  care  not  to  make  any  leaks  in 
it.  But  to  accomplish  this  well  is  one  of  the  nicest 
operations  in  pastry- cooking. 

Patties^  or  Petits  Patds^  of  whatever  kind,  have  their 
crust  made  in  the  same  way  as  that  for  Vols-au-Vent, 
only  on  a  smaller  scale.  A  number  of  them  may  be 
baked  at  once  on  the  same  iron  plate,  placing  them  so 


HADE  DISHES.  331 

as  not  to  touch  each  other.  When  hollowed  out,  thej 
are  filled  with  diverse  contents;  so  forming  oyster, 
lohster,  minced-veal,  minced-fowl,  hare,  and  a  variety 
of  other  patties. 

As  a  Vol-au-Vent  may  be  made  of  any  thmgj  and 
must  contain  a  variety  of  ingredients,  most  of  which 
require  previous  preparation,  it  is  an  economical  way  of 
producing,  in  an  elegant  form,  many  little  remnants 
which  would  otherwise  be  wasted.  The  housekeeper,  on 
looking  over  the  contents  of  her  store-room,  can  often 
out  of  them  compose  an  original  Vol-au-Vent.  There  is 
scope  for  her  inventive  genius.  Bits  of  cold  fowl,, 
pigeon,  meat,  game,  and  forcemeat;  unused  oyster,, 
caper,  shrimp,  or  anchovy  sauce,  &c.  &c.,  will,  with 
judicious  additions,  costing  little,  and  a  well-made, 
tastefully  flavoured  sauce,  constitute  a  dish  pleasing  to> 
the  eye  as  well  as  to  the  palate.  You  may  thus  turn  to 
a  useful  purpose  delicate  joints  of  poultry,  brains,  bits- 
of  veal ;  the  livers  of  chicken,  ducks,  or  geese ;  cocks'- 
combs  and  kidneys ;  morsels  of  rabbit ;  small  birds,  as 
larks;  portions  of  sausage,  stuffing,  quenelles,  boudins, 
and  balls  of  &ied  mincemeat;  —  any  thing,  in  short, 
which  you  have  at  hand.  Meat  Vols-au- Vent  may  have 
their  character  varied  by  a  sliglit  predominance  of  mush- 
room or  walnut  ketchup ;  Harvey's,  Worcestershire, 
Beading,  or  other  popular  sauce;  truffles,  lemon-peel, 
/Or  even  a  dash  of  curry  powder. 

Again :  Vols-au- Vent  of  Fish  are  excellent,  being 
moreover  serviceable  for  meager  days.  That  o{  Shrimps 
is  one  of  the  best.      But  cold  cod,  cods'  sounds  and 


332  MADE  DISHES. 

tongues,  flakes  of  turbot,  fillets  of  soles,  pieces  of  eel, 
cockles,  mussels,  lobster,  crayfish,  crab,  scallops,  &c  &c, 
will  come  in  usefully.  Meagre  Vols-au-Vent  may  be 
made  to  diflfer  fi'om  each  other  by  a  slightly  prevailing 
flavour  of  parsley,  or  of  mustard  and  vinegar,  of  oysters, 
eels,  or  anchovy,  the  sauce  in  all  cases  retaining  ita 
richness  and  smoothness. 

To  almost  any  Vol-au-Vent  you  may  add  either 
oysters  or  mushrooms,  or  both.  A  few  olives  improve 
the  more  high  flavoured.  As  an  example  of  the  general 
mode  of  proceeding,  we  give : 

Vol-au^Vent  of  Sweetbreads  and  Oysters,  A  fine 
Sweetbread  will  make  enough  for  from  ten  to  twelve 
persons.  The  ragoiit,  when  finished,  may  be  divided 
between  two  Vols-au-Vent  (as  they  are  never  made 
large),  or  saved  till  another  day. 

Procure  the  Sweetbreads  as  fresh  as  possible ;  if  the 
same  day  on  which  the  calf  is  slaughtered,  so  much  the 
better.  Put  them  immediately  into  cold  water,  where 
let  them  lie  half  an  hour  or  so,  to  cleanse  and  whiten. 
Then  throw  them  into  boiling  water,  with  a  dessert- 
spoonfiil  of  salt  thrown  into  it.  Let  them  boil  gallop- 
ing, well  covered  with  the  water,  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
or  twenty  minutes,  according  to  size,  until  they  are 
enough,  not  too  much,  cooked.  Take  out,  drain,  let 
cool,  and  set  aside  in  meat-safe  or  larder.  They  are 
now  ready  to  be  employed  in  any  of  the  ways  in  which 
sweetbreads  are  served. 

For  your  Vol-au-Vent,  then,  take  your  cold 
sweetbread,  prepared  as  above  directed.      Cut  it  into 


MADE  DISHES.  333 

dice,  which  you  are  to  salt,  pepper,  and  dredge  with 
flour. 

Have  ready-opened  in  a  basin  two  or  three  dozen 
oysters,  according  to  size,  with  their  beards  on,  and  all 
their  liquor;  also  a  small  teacupful  of  button  mush- 
rooms ;  also  the  flesh  of  two  dozen  olives,  pared  as  you 
would  pare  an  orange  all  in  one  piece,  only  as  tliick  as 
possible,  and  close  to  the  kernel ;  which  kernels  you 
throw  away. 

Into  your  stew-pan  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter;  melt  it;  add  a  good  table-spoonful  of  flour, 
stirring  well,  and  pouring  in  stock  gradually,  until  your 
sauce  attains  a  creamy  consistency.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper,  or  cayenne,  and  a  very  little  dust  of  nutmeg. 

Put  in  your  sweetbreads,  stirring  continually,  for 
fear  of  their  burning  or  browning.  When  thorougldy 
heated  and  done  enough,  add,  one  after  the  other,  your 
oysters,  mushrooms,  and  olives,  a  glass  of  madeira, 
marsala,  or  sherry,  and  a  table-spoonful  of  tarragon  or 
other  aromatised  vinegar.  Stir  and  heat  up  again, 
taking  great  care  not  to  let  it  boil.  Taste  if  sufficiently 
highly  seasoned,  and  serve  in  the  Vol-au-Vent  crust, 
after  gently  warming  it. 

Many  people  like  Vols-au-Vent  quite  as  well  cold  as 
hot,  or  even  better,  as  being  less  rich.  Cold  Vol-au- 
Vent  makes  a  nice  supper  dish,  and  is  just  as  produce- 
able  as  cold  oyster  patties  or  cold  veal  pie. 

Altliough  we  are  not  yet  treating  of  Sweet  Dishes,  it 
is  still  an  appropriate  opportunity  to  mention  a  very 
agreeable  and  elegant  variety  of  the  above ;  namely, 


334  MADE  DISHES. 

VoU^aU'Ventj  with  IjruU  (Alexis  Soyer).     These 
are  generally  used  for  the  second  course,  and  do  not 
require  to  be  so  high  as  the  others,  especially  as  the 
fruit  ought  to  be  dressed  in  the  form  of  a  pjramid.     If 
the  puff-paste,  of  which  they  are  to  be  formed,  be  cut 
about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  in  thickness,  it  will  be 
enough.    When  nearly  baked,  sift  some  powdered  sugar 
over  them,  and  put  them  back  in  the  oven  to  glaze ;  if 
not  hot  enough,   use  the   salamander.      Remove   the 
interior,  as  for  savoury  Vols-au- Vent,  taking  care  not  to 
make  a  hole  in  the  bottom  or  sides.     Fill  with  any  kind 
of  fruit  you  like ;   but  never  mix  two  kinds  together, 
oxcept  currant  and  raspberry. 

Sweet  Vol-au'Vetity  with  Rhubarb  (Idem).  In  the 
spring  of  the  year,  this  makes  a  very  inviting  and 
wholesome  dish,  and  its  qualities  purify  the  blood,  which 
the  winter's  food  has  rendered  gross. 

Cut  about  twelve  sticks  of  rhubarb  into  lengths  of 
one  inch;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  holding  about  two 
quarts ;  put  over  them  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar 
and  a  table-spoonful  of  water.  Then  set  the  stew-pan 
on  a  brisk  fire,  stirring  well,  to  prevent  browning  and 
consequent  loss  of  flavour.  The  rhubarb  will  take  but  a 
few  minutes  to  do.  When  tender,  put  it  in  a  basin  to 
cool.  A  few  minutes  before  serving,  fill  the  Vol-au- 
Vent  with  it,  and  serve  cold. 

Sweet  Vol -au- Vent  J  wUh  Green  Gooseberries  (Idem). 
A  quart  of  green  gooseberries,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water.     Put  on  the  fire,  and  move  it  about 


MADE  DISHES.  335 

for  ten  minutes,  or  until  tender,  and  forming  a  thick 
green  marmalade.  Put  it  in  a  basin  till  cold ;  serve  in 
a  pyramid  in  the  Vol-au-Vent  A  little  thick  syrup,  if 
handy,  improves  the  appearance. 

The  same  idea  may  be  carried  out  with  cherries 
(stoned  and  stewed),  apples  (quartered  and  stewed),  and 
strawberries  (sugared  and  uncooked). 

Chicken  or  Rabbit  Curry.  Cut  up  the  chicken  or 
rabbit,  raw,  into  small  joints,  fit  for  serving  with  a 
spoon.  Brown  them  in  a  frying-pan,  with  sliced  onions 
and  butter.  When  half  cooked,  put  them  in  a  stew-> 
pan,  cover  them  with  stock  or  good  brown  gravy,  and 
let  them  simmer  until  tender.  Sub  smooth  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  curry  powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  an 
ounce  of  butter,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  add 
it  to  the  stew.  Salt  to  your  taste.  Arrange  ihe  meat 
in  the  middle  of  your  dish,  and  pour  the  gi'avy  over  it  . 

You  may  make  a  curry  of  any  thing ,  fish  or  flesh ; 
and  the  better  the  material  employed,  the  better  the 
curry.  For  instance,  pheasant  curry  and  lobster  curry 
are  excellent.  Cold  meat,  or  fish,  for  curry,  need  not 
be  fried,  but  the  onions  must. 

Boiled  rice  is  mostly  served  with  curry.  A  common 
practice  is  to  pile  tlic  rice  round  the  dish,  and  put  the 
curry  in  the  middle.  The  correct  way  is  to  serve  them 
on  separate  dishes.  Each  guest  then  takes  what  he 
chooses  of  each. 

Boiled  Rice^  to  be  served  with  Curry.  Wash  the 
rice  well  in  two  difierent  waters,  and  throw  it  into 
plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  just  a  grain  of  salt  in  it. 


336  MADE  DISHES. 

When  nearly  done  (in  twelve  or  fourteen  minutes), 
drain  off  the  water ;  set  it  on  the  side  of  the  stove,  with 
the  lid  aslant,  so  as  to  allow  the  moisture  to  evaporate, 
shaking  it  up  from  time  to  time.  The  cooking  of  tlie 
rice  will  thus  bo  finished  in  its  own  vapour,  and  burn- 
ing (which  would  spoil  both  taste  and  colour)  will  be 
avoided.  Bice  for  curries  should  not  be  in  a  mash,  but 
have  every  grain  dry  and  separate. 

Curried  Plieasant  or  Partridges.  Cut  up  the  birds 
into  exactly  such  joints  as  you  would  serve  at  table. 
Half  fry  them  in  butter  to  a  nice  brown,  together  with 
three  or  four  sliced  onions. 

Work  a  lump  of  butter  with  a  table-spoonful  of 
flour,  and  the  same  quantity  of  curry  powder ;  put  it  in 
your  stew-pan  with  a  pint  of  good  stock,  and  stir  well 
till  all  is  smooth. 

Pare  and  core  two  or  three  apples ;  chop  them  fine ; 
add  to  them  an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  heart  of  cab- 
bage, one  pickled  capsicum  minced  fine,  the  juice  of  a 
lemon,  and  a  little  salt  Put  these  into  your  sauce, 
together  with  the  fried  game  and  a  coffee-cupful  of 
cream.  Simmer  till  all  is  tender,  with  frequent  stir- 
rings. When  the  meat  is  done,  take  it  out  with  a 
spoon,  and  arrange  it  on  your  dish.  Let  the  sauce  boil 
up,  to  reduce  it  if  necessary,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot 
over  tlie  joints  of  game. 

Curries  in  general.  Cut  up  into  joints  any  fowl, 
rabbit,  or  game,  you  may  want  to  curry ;  meat  or  fish, 
into  suitable  pieces. 

Put  four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan ;  when  it 


KADE  DISHES.  337 

is  melted,  put  in  the  meat  or  fish,  with  a  couple  of  sliced 
onions.  Set  your  stew-pan  over  a  brisk  fire  till  they  are 
nicely  browned.  Then  stir  in  half  a  pint  of  broth,  and 
let  aU  simmer  for  twenty  minutes. 

Put  into  a  basin  one  table-spoonfiil  of  curry  powder, 
the  same  of  flour,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  Mix  these 
smooth  with  a  little  cold  water ;  then  put  them  into  the 
stew-pan,  and  shake  all  well  together,  until  your  curry 
begins  to  boiL  Take  it  off  the  fire,  and  let  it  simmer  at 
the  side  for  another  twenty  minutes  longer.  Then  add 
the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  table-spoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Give  a  final  stir  up,  and  serve  hot,  accompaniedy 
not  surrounded,  by  boiled  rice. 

In  all  curries,  the  quantity  of  curry  powder  used 
must  depend,  first,  upon  its  age  and  strength;  and, 
secondly,  on  the  degree  of  spiciness  desired.  Many 
persons  who  are  fond  of  curry  find  it  disagree  with  them 
when  made  too  hot  In  preparing  these  highly  seasoned 
dishes,  the  cook  should  never  forget  that  a  curxy  is  one 
thing  and  a  devil  another. 

Mol^y  a  Mexican  BagaCtt,  Take  half  a  turkey,  and 
cut  it  in  pieces  of  the  same  size  as  if  for  a  curry ;  put 
it  in  a  stew-pan  with  just  enough  broth  to  stew  it  in, 
seasoning  it  with  pepper  and  salt  When  tender,  take 
it  out  and  strain  the  gravy. 

Make  a  purle  of  three  or  four  tomatoes  (an  equal 
quantity  of  bottled  tomato  sauce  will  serve  the  purpose), 
and  mix  with  it  a  couple  of  pickled  capsicums  pounded 
in  a  mortar. 

Betum  gravy,  tomatoes,  capsicums,  and  meat  to  the 

z 


338  HADE  DISHES. 

stew-pan,  putting  in  with  them  a  clove  of  garlic  split 
in  two,  and  let  all  simmer  gentlj  together  for  a  little 
while.  The  saace  is  usually  rather  liquid,  having  no- 
thing to  thicken  it  except  the  tomatoes.  At  servings 
sprinkle  over  it  a  slight  dust  of  coriander  seed  ground 
like  pepper. 

Rabbit  en  Gibelottey  Fricasseed.  Gut  some  fat  bacon 
into  small  dice ;  brown  them  in  your  stew-pan  with  a 
good  lump  of  butter.  Take  them  out  of  the  stew-pan^ 
and  put  in  your  rabbit  cut  up  into  joints.  When  that 
also  is  nicely  browned,  put  back  the  bacon.  Add  a 
little  flour ;  moisten  with  broth  and  a  glass  of  white 
wine  (or  red) ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  small  onions, 
mushrooms,  and  a  bouquet  complete.  Serve  with  toasts 
or  fried  bread  laid  round  the  dish. 

This  receipt  is  for  a  broion  fricassee ;  and  is  appli- 
cable to  many  other  things,  such  as  ducks,  chicken^ 
cutlets,  &c. 

W/iite  Fricassees  are  mostly  made  in  the  way  directed 
for  4  laPoulette  (which  see). 

Rabbit  a  la  Jardiniere — Gardeners^  way.  Cut  up  a 
rabbit  into  joints.  Put  it  into  your  stew-pan  with 
onions,  carrots,  green  peas,  turnips,  potatoes,  beans,  a 
little  celery,  bouquet  complete,  pepper  and  salt  Fill 
up  your  stew-pan  with  broth ;  and  if  you  have  any  good 
roast  veal  or  beef  gravy,  add  it  to  the  stew  in  preference- 
to  using  butter. 

Let  all  simmer  together  till  the  rabbit  is  tender; 
then  take  it  out  and  arrange  it  on  your  dish.  Mash  the 
vegetables  together  into  a  puree,   and  squeeze  them 


MADE  DISHES.  339 

through  a  cullender.  Fry  thin  siloes  of  delicate  white 
baoon ;  lay  them  round  the  rabbit  on  your  dish.  Heat 
up  the  pur^e  of  vegetables  in  your  stew-pan,  and  pour 
it  oyer  the  rabbit 

N.B.  There  are  iioo  ways  of  serving  things  (and 
almost  any  kind  of  meat  may  be  so  dressed)  a  la  Jar- 
dmikre — a  term  which  explains  itself,  as  implying  a 
liberal  use  of  vegetables :  First,  the  vegetables  may  be 
crushed  and  combined  together  into  a  pur^,  as  above ; 
or,  secondly,  they  may  be  left  whole^  after  stewing  with 
the  meat,  and  neatly  arranged  around  and  about  it, 
when  the  meat  is  served  on  the  dish.  This  second  mode 
is  that  usually  employed  with  steaks  and  cutlets  a  la 
Jardiniirey  and  is  preferred  by  many.  The  great  variety 
of  vegetables  gives  a  tasteful  appearance  to  dishes  so 
dressed ;  it  has  also  the  advantage  of  being  less  trouble- 
some (not  requiring  the  vegetables  to  be  mashed),  and 
consequently  more  expeditious.  Boots,  such  as  carrots 
and  turnips,  may  be  cut  into  slices,  slips,  or  ornamental 
shapes  punched  out  with  a  stamp.  Any  vegetables  which 
the  season,  or  the  Gardener's  resources,  can  supply,  may 
be  used ;  cnly^  those  which  would  discolour  the  stew,  or 
communicate  to  it  a  bitter  flavour  (as  artichokes  and 
Windsor  beans),  must  be  boiled  separately,  and  added 
afterwards.     Potatoes  also  are  best  co<^ed  separately. 


340  BKEF* 


BEEF. 

The  BailwajB  are  reducing  every  diing  to  the  same 
level.  Formerly,  to  eat  first-rate  beef,  jon  had  to  go  to 
London,  where  it  used  to  be  far  better  than  in  its  native 
place,  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  pastures 
where  it  was  bfed  and  &ttened.  Now,  people  complain, 
London  beef  is  no  longer  what  it  was,  beef  being  every 
where  pretty  much  alike. 

The  reason  of  this  is,  that  beef  is  a  meat  which  is 
improved  by  travelling,  while  alive.  Like  East-Lidia 
madeira,  it  is  the  better  for  the  journey ;  only,  in  the 
ease  of  the  bullock,  it  must  be  performed  on  fi>ot.  A 
moderate  degree  of  fatigue,  not  amounting  to  exhaustion, 
causes  the  fat  to  incorporate  more  intimately  with  the 
lean,  and  the  muscle  itself  to  become  more  tender.  Such 
meat  acquired  a  softer,  marrow-like  consistency,  and 
was  doubtless  more  digestible  than  the  robust,  hard- 
fibred  flesh  which  reaches  Town,  without  the  slightest 
exertion,  by  rail.  Such  is  the  fact,  and  it  is  no  use  to 
complain  of  it.  It  is  one  little  item  in  the  irresistible 
course  of  events,  to  which  we  must  all  of  us  submit.  The 
cook  must  make  up  as  well  as  she  can  for  the  ameli- 
orating effects  which  pedestrian  travel  once  produced  in 
oxen. 


9xsr,  341 

Beef  is  perliaps  the  most  nutrltioas  of  butchers*  meat^ 
mutton  claiming  equality  with  it  in  this  respect ;  but  it 
certainly  is  not  the  most  digestible,  and  must  therefore 
be  partaken  of  with  considerable  caution.  None  but 
persons  in  robust  health,  taking  pleniy  of  air  and  exer- 
cise, may  «a^t^' their  appetite  with  beef,  without  risking 
unpleasant  consequences.  This,  however,  does  not  debar 
weak  stomachs  from  tasting  it  in  moderation,  now  and 
then, — ^not  making  it  the  staple  of  a  meal,  but  diluting  it, 
as  it  were,  both  with  thorough  cookery  and  lighter 
riands.  It  is  often  also  the  frequency  with  which  some 
particular  kinds  of  food  are  taken  which  causes  them  to 
disagree.  People  who  can  eat  roast  beef  for  dinner 
once  a  week  with  impunity,  may  have  their  digestive 
organs  over-taxed  by  its  being  served  to  them  three  or 
four  times — as  is  the  case  with  families  who  roast  lumps 
of  beef  big  enough  to  carry  ihem  through  the  greater 
part  of  the  week.  They  may  eat  pickle  with  it,  cold, 
and  spices  with  it,  hashed ;  there  it  is  still — ^beef,  beef, 
beef,  in  substance ;  and  all  the  more  dangerous  because 
good  beef  w  very  good. 

Many  modes  of  poisoning  (as  those  by  emetics)  are 
eifected  by  simply  deranging  the  functions  of  the  stomach. 
A  continued  course  of  indigestible  meats  is  only  another 
form  of  true  slow  poisoning.  If  you  can  digest  beef 
easily,  eat  it  freely;  if  you  cannot — do  as  you  please, 
and  afterwards  sing  or  sigh,  ^^  Oh  I  the  Roast  Beef  of 
Old  England  1" 

Be^^  nevertheless,  is  a  noble  viand,  of  world-wide 
utility,  as  well  as  of  heroic  proportions.    It  is  not  the 


342  BEEF. 

Ox's  fault,  but  our  misfortune  and  loss,  if  the  effects  of 
our  modern  civilised  life — from  which  not  even  Royal 
Beefeaters  are  exempt— often  compel  us  to  regard  him  with 
a  cautious,  even  when  with  a  covetous  eye.  The  well- 
kept  Sirloin,  roasted  to  a  turn  (that  is,  rosy  inside  and 
full  of  gravy),  accompanied  by  a  stimulating  sauce — 
horse-radish  or  anchovy — is  the  very  dish  to  set,  in 
winter  time,  before  a  numerous  and  hungry  party.  The 
•  boiled  Bound,  salted  and  saltpetred  to  a  day,  is  an  ad- 
mirable and  monumental  joint,  worthy  to  be  sent  to  any 
International  Exhibition  or  Exposition  whatsoever,  espe- 
cially if  surrounded  by  bastions  of  vegetables — carrots, 
turnips,  potatoes,  and  cabbages,  disposed  in  pleasing 
alternation. 

Beef  renders  good  service  by  its  mere  appendages. 
The  tail  makes  a  delicious  stew  or  ragoiit;  its  palate 
affords  an  excellent  and  delicate  side-dish ;  the  fillet,  or 
•^  roll,"  of  the  loin,  sliced  artistically  thin,  laid  a  few 
minutes  on  the  gridiron,  and  ser\'ed  on  a  hot  dish,  with 
no  other  seasoning  than  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  rolled  in 
fine-chopped  parsley,  constitutes  the  wonder  which  the 
epicurean  lights  of  other  days  called  (afler  its  English 
inventors)  a  Beef*8  Teaky  stating  that  it  formed  the 
principal  dish  at  their  dinners,  and  that  it  was  worth 
braving  the  voyage  across  the  Channel  to  taste  it.  And 
for  Soup  ?  How,  without  Beef,  should  we  manage  for 
Soup  ? 

lioast  Beef.  Begin  by  hanging  it  at  a  distance  from 
the  fire,  bringing  it  nearer  when  about  half  or  three- 
parts  done.     For  the  time  of  roasting,  the  general  and 


BBEF.  343 

approximate  rule  is,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  each  pound 
of  meat;  but  much  will  depend  on  the  brightness  and 
also  the  mass  of  the  fire,  the  weather,  and  other  circum- 
stances. Continual  basting  must  be  observed  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end  of  the  operation ;  dredging  with 
flour  is  a  matter  of  choice. 

Sibs  o/Beefxa9,y  be  bcmed  (the  butcher  will  mostly 
save  the  cook  this  trouble),  rolled,  tied  round  with  a 
string,  and  so  roasted  in  a  solid  lump ;  which  is  conve- 
nient for  carving,  and  also  more  presentable  cold :  but  it 
is  questionable  whether  boned  joints  of  meat  are  quite  so 
juicj  and  succulent  as  those  in  which  the  bones  are 
allowed  to  remain.  In  the  former  case,  however,  the 
bones  render  service  by  helping  to  make  stock-broth. 

Tlie  Loin  may  be  disposed  of  in  various  ways,  or 
roasted  whole,  in  its  natural  state.  The  Fillet,  taken 
out,  makes  the  tenderest  of  all  beef-steaks ;  marinaded, 
^and  then  either  roasted  or  saut&l,  it  affords  a  delicious 
little  dish — ^the  very  thing  for  a  very  small  party  or  a  con- 
valescent's dinner.  With  the  Fillet  removed,  the  upper 
part  of  the  loin  may  be  either  boned,  rolled,  and  roasted, 
like  the  ribs,  or  stewed  whole,  with  the  bones  left  in  it, 
with  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  and  a  variety  of  other 
vegetables,  a  la  JardinUrey  and  seasoned  widi  whole 
•doves  and  peppercorns.  Any  other  joint  of  beef,  Shiny 
Rumpy  &C.,  is  stewed  in  the  same  way,  the  only  difference 
being  a  question  of  time,  as  the  sinewy  parts  take  con- 
siderably longer  than  those  which  consist  merely  of 
muscular  flesh.  Stewed  Beef  affords  the  convenience  of 
being  just  as  good  warmed  up  again  next  day,  which 


3^  BEST. 

also  affords  ihe  opportimitj  of  completely  removing  the 
grease  from  the  gravy.  On  the  first  day  of  serving,  for 
those  who  object  to  too  much  fat  or  richness  in  Ihe 
gravy  y  when  the  beef  is  done,  pnt  it  in  the  middle  of  its 
dish  (made  quite  hot) ;  arrange  the  vegetables  aromid 
it ;  and  then,  into  the  gravy  remaining  in  ihe  stew-pan, 
gradually  stir  a  dessert-spoonful  or  so  of  flour,  adding  a 
good  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  and  half  a 
wine-glass  of  red  wine.  Let  it  boil;  pass  it  through  a 
cullender,  if  at  all  knotty ;  and  pour  over  the  stewed 
beef  and  vegetables. 

N.B.  A  metal  or  earthenware  cullender  or  strainer  is 
preferable  to  a  tammy  or  sieve  for  all  these  purposes. 
Cullenders  and  strainers  are  made  pierced  with  holes 
of  all  sizes  up  to  the  extreme  of  fineness.  Metal  and 
earthenware  are  easily  cleaned  and  kept  clean ;  it  is  the 
kitchen-maid's  fault  if  the  flavour  or  smell  of  the  things 
they  have  strained  adheres  to  them  afterwards :  whereas 
horse-hair  and  linen  sieves  are  more  difficult  to  cleanse, 
are  apt  to  get  mouldy  if  neglected  for  a  day  or  two,  and 
are  even  affected  by  moisture  in  the  air  when  the  weather 
is  unusually  moist  or  changeable. 

Boiled  Beefy  Salted.  All  meat  takes  salt  &ster  in 
warm  weather  than  in  cold.  Tastes  vaiy  as  to  the  degree 
of  saltness  desirable  in  meats,  but  moderately  salted  meat 
is  both  more  nutritious  and  more  digestible  than  that 
which  is  very  salt  When  meat  has  to  be  preserved 
for  long  periods,  or  dried  or  smoked,  of  course  the 
salting  must  be  carried  to  a  degree  ^sufficient  to  effect  its 
preservation. 


For  private  families,  beef  will  be  quite  enough  salted 
in  from  four  days  to  a  week.  First  rub  it  with  pounded 
sallpetre,  to  give  the  scarlet  tinge  to  the  inside.  Too 
much  must  not  be  used,  for  fear  of  turning  the  meat 
hard :  half  an  ounce  will  do  for  a  joint  of  from  seven  to 
eight  pounds.  Then  lay  the  beef  in  jour  salting-pan, 
and  cover  it  completely  with  common  salt  well  heaped 
over  it.  Turn  the  meat  every  day,  and  ladle  it  with  the 
brine  which  forms  in  the  dish.  Beef  so  salted  is  more 
delicate  than  when  plunged  into  a  ready-made  brine; 
which,  however,  has  its  advantages  when  several  pieces 
are  salted  at  once,  as  well  as  in  hot  weather,  when  flies 
are  troublesome.  The  addition  of  sugar  for  salting  beef 
is  a  matter  of  taste ;  it  is  usually  reserved  for  meat 
intended  to  be  dried,  htmg,  or  smoked.  Miss  Acton 
very  correctly  observes :  "  Saltpetre  hardens  and  renders 
the  meat  indigestible ;  sugar,  on  the  contrary,  mellows 
and  improves  it  much.''  The  one  flatters  the  eye ;  the 
other  suits  the  stomach. 

To  Pickle  Beefm  Brine.  To  three  gallons  of  spring 
water  add  six  pounds  of  common  salt,  two  pounds  of  bay- 
salt,  two  pounds  of  common  loaf-sugar,  and  two  ounces 
of  saltpetre.  Boil  these  over  a  gentle  fii*e,  take  ofi^  the 
soum  as  it  rises,  and  let  it  stand  till  quite  cold  before  you 
put  your  beef  in.  The  beef  should  be  previously  rubbed 
with  salt,  and  allowed  to  drain  for  a  day  or  two,  in  order 
to  draw  the  blood  out  of  it,  before  putting  it  into  the 
pickle. 

Hunter'* 8  Beef.  For  a  large  round  of  beef,  of  from 
thirty  to  forty  potmds,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 


d46  BEEF. 

ground  allspice,  a  litde  bruised  maoe,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  saltpetre,  and  two  pounds  of  common  salt. 
Mix  these  ingredients  together,  and  with  them  rub  the 
beef  well  twice  a  daj  for  ten  days.  Then  get  three 
poundfl  of  good  beef-dripping,  and  lay  it  over  the  round 
of  beef,  covering  the  whole  with  a  thick  paste  made  of 
flour  and  water.  Then  put  it  into  a  very  slow  oven  to 
bake  for  seven  or  eight  hours.  It  must  not  be  cut  up 
until  cold.  By  leaving  the  crust  of  paste  sticking  round 
it,  it  will  keep  good  for  two  or  three  months  if  carefully 
protected  from  flies  and  damp. 

Beefmsiy  be  salted  in  a  hurry  in  twenty-four  hours, 
or  in  a  night  and  morning,  thus : 

Take  a  large  shallow  dish ;  fill  it  with  water,  and  lay 
over  it  three  or  four  cross  sticks.  On  these  place  your 
piece  of  beef,  whose  upper  and  under  surfaces  should  be 
fiat  On  the  beef  pile  as  much  salt  as  it  will  carry.  The 
vapour  from  the  water,  caught  by  the  salt,  will  form  a 
•concentrated  brine,  which,  trickling  down,  will  rapidly 
penetrate  the  meat  K  during  the  time  allowed  you  can 
turn  the  meat,  applying  the  salt  to  the  other  side  also,  it 
will  still  further  hasten  the  process. 

Salt  Beef  must  be  set  on  with  the  water  cold,  if  it  is 
wished  to  be  tender  and  to  swell  in  the  boiling.  Fresh- 
salted  beef  may  be  rinsed,  or  only  wiped ;  long-salted 
beef  requires  steeping  in  fresh  water  for  a  time  varying 
with  its  condition.  Sailors'  salt  beef  is  sometimes  un* 
salted  by  steeping  in  tlie  sea,  showing  how  completely  it 
must  have  been  saturated  by  the  pickle. 

Carrots,  turnips,  and  parsnips  may  be  boiled  together 


BEEF.  347 

-wiih  the  beef  (patting  them  in  when  the  water  boils)  ; 
French  cooks  would  allow  cabbages  also  to  join  company 
with  the  above.  The  vegetables  can  either  garnish  the 
beef  on  its  dish,  or  be  served  separately  (chopped  or 
mashed)  m  vegetable-dishes,  or  both. 

Beef  must  be  very  slightly  salted  indeed  to  make  the 
boilings  desirable  to  use  for  soup.  They  are  usually  em«- 
ployed  for  pease  soup ;  but  it  is  sometimes  an  economy 
of  the  pocket  at  the  expense  of  the  stomach. 

Rolled  Beef.  Take  a  slice  of  lean  beef  weighing  a 
pound,  and  a  similar  slice  of  leg  of  veal.  These  slices 
should  be  cut  cusross  the  fibre  of  the  muscle,  and  be  about 
half  an  inch  in  thickness. 

Then  take  half  a  pound  of  fresh  sausage-meat,  as 
much  grated  bread-crumbs  as  will  fill  an  egg-sheU, 
soaked  in  milk ;  mix  these  thoroughly  together  with  a 
beat-up  egg. 

Sprinkle  both  the  slices  of  meat  with  pepper  and 
«alt,  and  spread  over  them  equally  the  sausage-meat,  &c. 
Then  roll  up  first  the  beef,  beginning  at  one  end,  exactly 
as  you  would  a  roly-poly  pudding ;  then  roll  the  slice  of 
veal  and  its  stuffing  over  the  roUed-up  beef.  Tie  all 
together  tightly  with  string.  The  beef  is  put  inaidey 
because  it  may  be  eaten  more  underdone  than  veal. 

Put  the  rolled  meat  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  lump  of 
butter ;  when  it  is  nicely  browned  outside,  moisten  with 
stock  enough  to  cook  it  in.  Let  it  stew  for  an  hour  and 
a  half  or  an  hour  and  three  quarters,  turning  it  from 
time  to  time. 

When  done,   place  the   rolled   meat  in    its  dish. 


348  BEEF. 

Thicken  the  sauce  with  arrowroot,  adding  lemon-juioe, 
mushrooms,  and  chopped  parsley.  Boil  up,  and  pour  it 
over  the  meat. 

JBouUli — BaUed  Beefy  Unsalted  (French),  from  which 
the  day's  soup  has  been  made,  is  served  immediately 
after  the  soup,  accompanied  by  the  vegetables  which 
have  flavoured  it,  and  is  eaten  with  mustard  and  pickled 
gherkins.  The  Ancien  Rigime  treated  this  dish  with  so 
much  respect,  that  etiquette  prohibited  your  asking  for 
du  houilli;  the  rule  was,  to  request  a  piece  of  Beef,  du 
hoeuf. 

English  palates  despise  this  insipid,  unsalted  beef, 
boiled  almost  to  shreds.  They  reject  it  as  good  for  no- 
thing, innutritious.  In  fact,  not  a  little  soup-meat  in 
England  is  thrown  out-of-doors,  or  given  to  the  dogs. 
Poor  people  would  be  affronted  by  its  being  offered  to 
them  as  a  gift.  They  are  wrong ;  for  boiled  meat,  even 
when  over-done,  still  contains  many  alimentary  elements. 
Seme  of  its  gelatine  and  fat  and  gravy  certainly  have 
been  abstracted ;  but  by  no  means  all.  And  such  meat 
has  the  great  advantage  of  being  light  and  digestible.  It 
is  clean  gone  and  forgotten,  perhaps  for  hours,  when  the 
same  quantity  of  underdone  roast  meat  would  still  weigh 
heavily  on  the  labouring  stomach.  The  results  are  a 
matter  of  calculation.  Suppose  that  boiled  meat — French 
Bouilliy  for  instance — contains  only  half  tlie  nutriment  of 
roast  meat;  and  that  our  digestive  apparatus,  the  stomach, 
is  able  to  assimilate,  with  ease,  a  certain  quantity  of 
boiled,  in  the  same  time  that  it  would  reduce,  with  dif- 
ficulty, half  that  quantity  of  roast,  meat,  it  is  clear  that 


349 

the  amount  of  nutriment  extracted  would  be  the  same, 
with  less  &tigue  to  the  organ  in  the  case  of  boiled  meat. 
Now,  if  it  be  imprudent  to  over-task  any  of  our  organs^ 
it  is  certainly  imprudent  to  over-work  the  stomach. 

By  serving  botli  boiled  and  roast  at  a  meal,  the 
former  serves  as  light  filling-up  stuff,  as  wadding,  as 
package  (in  itself  no  worthless  material),  to  prevent  the 
vessel's  taking  in  too  heavy  a  ballast  of  roast  Why, 
the  Doctor  himself,  though  blessed  with  a  model  stomach, 
cannot  commit  the  imprudence  of  dining  heartily — ^as  he 
always  dines — off  roast  beef  and  potatoes  only,  followed 
by  a  bit  of  cheese,  without  feeling  a  heaviness,  a  tendency 
to  indigestion,  which  he  is  tempted  to  throw  off  by  the 
second  imprudence  of  taking  an  extra  glass  of  wine* 
Boiled  meats,  therefore— even  for  the  healthy,  and  still 
more  for  the  sedentary  and  the  convalescent — are  anala- 
gous  in  their  effects  to  bread ;  they  fill  without  repletion, 
and  satisfy  without  fatigue.     Bread  itself  does  the  same. 

"  Why  do  you  eat  such  a  quantity  of  bread  ?"  the 
Doctor  once  inquired  of  a  French  out-door  labourer. 

^^  The  reason  is  plain,"  he  answered,  with  a  laugh, 
'^  if  Monsieur  will  only  reflect  a  moment.  Monsieur's 
horse  is  very  fond  of  oats ;  but  Monsieur  does  not  feed 
him  entirely  on  oats.  When  he  has  had  enough  of  that, 
he  is  obliged  to  content  himself,  for  the  rest  of  the  day, 
with  straw.  Monsieur  will  understand  that  meat  is  my 
oats.  I  can't  afford  to  live  on  meat  alone ;  and  it  might 
not  be  good  for  me  if  I  could.  So  I  make  up  the  rest 
with  bread :  bread  is  my  straw." 

Beef  h  la  Mode  (French).     Take  any  fleshy  piece  of 


350  BEEF. 

beef;  remove  the  bone;  lard  (prick)  it  all  over  with 
tmsmoked  bacon,  and  dost  it  with  finely  minced  parsley 
and  chives,  salt,  ground  pepper,  and  other  spices.  Take 
a  saucepan,  into  which  put  a  small  quantity  of  ordinaiy 
white  wine  (good  cider  does  well  as  a  substitute),  bacon  cut 
small  into  dice,  shallots  minced  fine,  small  onions  whole, 
slices  of  carrot,  peppercorns,  and  a  little  salt.  Lay  your 
beef  upon  these  ingredients :  cover  the  stew-pan  close, 
and  put  it  over  a  slow  fire.  Make  it  simmer  gently  for 
five  or  six  hours,  and  then  serve  your  beef  with  all  its 
accompaniments  and  seasonings. 

Beef-steaksj  French — Bifteksj  as  they  call  them. 
For  this  purpose,  French  butchers  (in  the  capital  and 
the  larger  cities)  cut  out  the  whole  of  the  fillet  or  "  roll" 
of  the  sirloin,  and  sell  it  to  restaurants  and  hotel-keepers 
at  a  very  high  price. 

Cut  your  steak  across  the  fillet,  somewhat  more  than 
an  iiich  thick.  It  will  be  nearly  circular  in  form. 
Make  it  as  much  so  as  you  can,  by  paring  ofi^  the  fibres 
and  loose  pieces,  leaving  as  much  fat  as  possible.  Flatten 
it  on  a  block  by  a  blow  or  two  of  the  flat  side  of  your 
meat-chopper,  or  a  wooden  beater  kept  for  the  purpose, 
till  it  is  reduced  to  at  least  half  its  original  thickness. 
Dip  it  in  tepid  butter;  dust  it  over  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  and  grill  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  brisk  charcoal  fire, 
turning  it  continually.  Serve  it  rather  underdone,  and 
full  of  gravy,  on  a  hot  dish,  in  the  middle  of  which 
you  have  laid  a  piece  of  butter  sprinkled  with  chopped 
parsley. 

Beef-steaks  dressed  in  the  foregoing  way  are  also 


BEEF.  351 

served  garnished  with  fried  potatoes;  or  with  water- 
oresses,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar ;  or  with 
brown  mushroom  sauce. 

This  French  Bifieky  which  is  really  both  delicious- 
and  digestible,  is  not  frequently  served  in  England; 
because  our  butchers  cannot  be  expected  to  make  their 
sirloins  unsaleable  by  robbing  them  of  the  fillet  We 
give  the  receipt,  mainly  because  it  is  an  excellent  restor- 
ative for  convalescents;  and  few  families  will  mind 
sacrificing  the  appearance  of  a  joint  for  once,  or  even 
i^r  twice,  when  the  health  of  one  of  their  members 
requires  it, — especially  as  we  have  indicated  ways  of 
utilising  the  rest  of  the  sirloin. 

Dr.  MarigoWa  Beef^ateak  Pudding  for  One.  Quantity 
of  Beef- steak  arbitrary,  with  two  kidneys,  a  dozen 
oysters,  and  a  couple  of  mushrooms  thrown  in.  It  is  a 
pudding  to  put  a  man  in  good  humour  with  every  thing, 
except  the  two  bottom  buttons  of  his  waistcoat — Charles 
Dickens. 

JRump^eteaky  Broiled  or  Fried.    No  one  who  has  tasted 
a  tender  Bump-steak,  grilled  over  a  charcoal  fire,  will 
ever  eat  a  fried  one  if  he  can  help  it ;  but,  in  a  land  of 
coal,  there  is  often  no  choice  in  the  matter. 

The  meat  for  this  should  hang  (in  the  joint)  as  long 
as  possible ;  never  less  than  a  week,  weather  permitting. 
In  summer,  it  must  be  made  tender  by  beating.  Cut  it 
not  more  than  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick.  It  is  a 
matter  of  taste  and  convenience  whether  to  cook  it  entire 
in  its  length,  or  to  divide  it  into  several  shorter  pieces. 
For  two  or  three  persons,  quite  a  small  quantity  suffices;. 


352  BBEFi 

and  it  is  better  to  make  several  cookings  than  to  have 
steak  left  cold. 

Rump-steak,  whether  fried  or  broiled,  should  be  done 
quicJdy  over  a  brisk  fire.  Broiled  steak  will  require  no 
sauce  except  a  slight  sprinkling  of  chopped  parslej,  a 
bit  of  butter  in  the  dish,  and  perhaps  a  dessert-spoonM 
of  mushroom  ketchup  poured  over  it  at  serving.  Fried 
steak  may  be  accompanied  by  brown  mushroom  sauce, 
or  by  oyster  sauce,  heightened  by  a  teaspoonful  of  essence 
of  anchovy  and  a  shred  of  horse-radish. 

Stewed  Rump-steak.  At  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan 
put  a  layer  of  sliced  carrots,  onions,  and  any  other 
vegetables  to  taste,  together  with  a  bouquet  complete. 
Moisten  with  just  enough  stock  to  keep  them  from  burn- 
ing. On  these  lay  your  steaks ;  cover  close  with  the  lid, 
and  let  them  stew  very  slowly  for  several  hours,  until 
quite  tender;  stirring  occasionally,  to  make  sure  that 
nothing  sticks  to  the  bottom.  You  may  serve  the  gravy 
with  it,  either  just  as  it  comes  from  the  stew-pan,  or 
you  may  treat  it  as  directed  for  stewing  the  loin. 

Beef-steak  Pie.  Invert  a  cupful  of  highly  seasoned 
stock  in  the  middle  of  your  pie-dish.  Cut  the  steaks 
into  pieces  of  convenient  size  for  serving  to  each  person, 
or  less  than  that  rather  than  larger.  Dust  them  on  each 
side  with  flour,  pepper,  and  salt  Arrange  them  in  the 
dish,  intermingling  with  them  a  small  proportion  of  fat. 
A  few  pieces  of  veal,  with  two  or  three  hard-boiled  eggs 
in  quarters,  make  an  agreeable  variety  in  the  contents  of 
the  pie.  Pour  over  these  a  little  well-seasoned  stock, 
cover  with  a  good  stout  crust,  and  bake  thoroughly. 


BEEF.  353 

Beef-steak  pie  is  best  hot ;  but  is  often  oonvenient  cold 
for  travelling  and  excursions. 

A  pie  composed  of  beef-steak  only  is  almost  too 
solid  a  dish  for  ordinary  appetites ;  but  any  pie  composed 
of  meat,  fowl,  or  game,  is  the  better  for  having  a  layer  of 
beaf-steak  at  the  bottom,  on  which  the  other  ingredients 
are  afterwards  placed*  The  bottom  of  the  pie-dish  being 
in  contact  with  the  floor  of  the  oven,  the  steak  acts  as 
a  non-conductor,  and  intercepts  the  heat  which  might 
otherwise  over-cook  the  tenderer  meats;  it  likewise 
enriches  the  gravy. 

Stewed  Ox^cheeL  An  economical  and  wholesome 
winter  dish,  and  a  great  favourite  with  many  persons. 

The  fresher  your  ox-cheek  is,  the  better.  Qtei  the 
butcher  to  remove  the  eye,  the  bones  of  the  jaws,  and  as 
much  of  the  internal  cartilage  of  the  nostrils  as  possible. 
Wash  it  well ;  let  it  steep  all  night  in  salt-and-wator,  to 
draw  away  the  blood,  &c ;  wash  it  again  next  morning, 
and  let  it  drain  an  hour  or  two,  either  hung  up  or  on  a 
dish. 

Ox-cheek  takes  a  deal  of  cooking ;  you  may,  there- 
fore, without  the  slightest  sacrifice  of  nutriment,  treat  it 
as  directed  in  the  boiling  of  a  Calf  s  Head  for  Mock- 
Turtle  Soup  (p.  147),  t.  e.  dumge  the  water  soon  after  it 
has  boiled  up  and  been  well  skimmed.  The  ox-cheek 
soup  will  thus  be  kept  pure,  dean,  and  perfectly  free 
from  any  objectionable  matters. 

When  the  cheek  has  boiled  in  the  soup-kettle  for  three 
hours,  or  a  little  longer,  take  it  up ;  remove  the  bones 
(which  may  have  been  previously  cracked  to  assist  in  the 

A  A 


354  BXBF* 

operation)  and  the  white  warty  skin  of  the  palate.  Trim 
off  the  rough  outside  edges,  so  as  to  make  it  a  handsome 
oval-shaped  lamp  of  meat.  Pat  it  in  a  deep  steuhpariy 
and  cover  it  completely  with  its  own  liquor,  seasoning 
with  salt,  cloves,  peppercorns,  and  a  bouquet  complete* 
After  it  has  stewed  an  hour  or  so,  add  six  or  eight 
middle-sized  onions  whole,  two  sticks  of  celery,  three  or 
four  turnips  cut  in  halves,  and  the  same  of  carrots  in 
short  lengths.  Continue  to  stew  till  the  cheek  is  quite 
tender.  It  will  take  from  five  to  six  hours  in  all,  and 
may,  therefore,  be  cooked  in  two  doings,  which  is  often 
a  convenience.  Serve  the  vegetables  round  the  meat, 
and  pour  the  hot  gravy  over  it 

The  trimmings,  and  what  is  lefl  of  the  boilings,  make 
excellent  soup,  with  the  addition  of  vegetables. 

Bullock*8  Heart.  Wash  the  heart  well  inside  and 
out,  rub  it  with  salt  idemy  and  let  it  hang  as  long  as. 
the  weather  will  allow. 

Stuff  it  with  veal  stuffing,  and  roast  or  bake,  not  too 
quickly,  but  thoroughly,  basting  assiduously  as  often  aa 
you  can.  Any  roast-beef  or  veal  gravy  you  may  have 
lefl  is  best  for  the  purpose.  Serve  accompanied  by  rich, 
gravy  (like  that  coming  from  the  stewed  ox-cheek),  well 
seasoned,  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup 
and  half  a  glass  of  red  wine  in  it. 

The  flavour  of  roast  or  baked  Beef-Heart  has  a  slight 
resemblance  to  that  of  hare,  which  may  be  increased  by 
marinading  it  in  an  infusion  of  aromatic  herbs  in  wine- 
and  vinegar.  In  this  case,  roast  it  stuffed  as  before,  and 
"wnd  up  currant  jelly  with  it 


BKX7.  355 

Cdd  Beef'Heartj  slioed,  may  be  warmed  up  or  hashed 
in  its  own  gravy,  adding  thereto  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
currant  jelly,  and  taking  care  not  to  let  it  boH,  If  it 
does  more  than  simmer  very  gently,  it  will  torn  hard. 
Forcemeat  balls  are  a  proper  garnish  for  hashed  Beef- 
Heart 

Tripe.  The  qnaliiy  of  this  depends  on  the  tripe-shop 
from  which  it  is  procured ;  when  neatly  prepared^  it  is 
very  nice  and  delicate ;  but  if  the  operation  has  been 
negligently  and  slovenly  performed,  it  is  offensive  and 
uneatable ;  and  it  is  hardly  a  cook's  place  to  clean  and 
prepare  raw  tripe  as  it  is  taken  from  the  animal.  The 
first  step  in  dressing  it  is  to  boil  it  (for  which  some  use 
milk-and-water)  until  quite  tender.  It  is  then  allowed 
to  cool,  and  is  finished  off  and  served  in  various  ways : 
one  of  the  nicest  being  to  cut  it  into  squares,  dip  it 
into  batter  and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown. 

Tripe  Curry.  Brown  sliced  onions,  with  butter,  in  a 
stew-pan ;  put  in  your  tripe  cut  into  squares ;  moisten 
with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  broth. 

Mix  in  a  basin  a  teaspoonfiil  of  flour,  a  table-spoonful 
of  cnny  powder,  half  a  teacupful  of  cream,  and  a  tea- 
cupful  of  stock.  When  worked  quite  smooth,  add  it  to 
the  rest,  and  stew  till  all  is  tender,  stirring  or  shaking 
from  time  to  time. 

Neat^a  Footj  or  Cow-Heel.  These,  like  tripe,  are  best 
bought  of  persons  who  make  it  their  business  to  clean 
and  cook  them  ready  for  their  final  dressing.  In  what- 
ever manner  that  is  effected,  the  gelatinous,  insipid 


356  B£EF. 

Bubstauce  of  Cow-Heel  requires  to  be  relieved  bj  well- 
seasoned  sanoe,  and  a  dash  of  vinegar  or  lemon-joioe. 

Neat's  Foot  may  be  plain-boiled,  and  served  with 
the  sance  recommended  for  Salmon  and  Mackarel,  ie. 
melted  butter  heightened  with  mustard  and  vinegar,  and 
perhaps  horse-radish.  So  tasteless  a  substance  maj  be 
sauced  indifferently  as  either  fish,  fiesh,  or  fowl.  Or,  it 
may  be  stewed  in  brown  gravy,  with  fried  onions,  mixed 
vegetables,  and  aromatic  herbs;  or,  it  may  be  halved, 
dipped  in  batter,  sprinkled  with  biscuit-raspings,  and 
broiled.  The  neatest  and  most  pleasing  way  of  present- 
ing it,  is  to  cut  it  into  smallish  pieces,  removing  all  the 
bones ;  then  to  dip  these  first  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  in 
bread-crumbs,  and  grill  them  till  they  are  of  a  nice  light 
brown  all  over.  They  may,  thus,  either  be  served  as  a 
side-dish,  or  wiU  make  an  elegant  addition  to  any  other 
stewed  or  hashed  preparation  of  bee£  The  truth  is, 
that  Neat's  Foot  consists  too  entirely  of  gelatine  and 
tendon  to  constitute  a  dish  by  itself.  Gelatinous  sub- 
stance— ^as  La  Fontaine  remarked  of  virtue— is  neccssaiy ; 
but  not  too  much  of  it  Excess  in  any  thing  is  faulty. 
A  Neat's  Foot,  however,  boiled  down  to  jelly,  is  both 
useful  and  economical  to  give  richness  and  consistency 
to  soups,  stews,  and  gravies,  of  whatever  kind. 

Beef^Tongue.  For  pickling  and  smoking,  see  the 
receipts  for  curing  Hams. 

Scarlet  Tongue.  Scald  the  tongue  in  boiling  water 
a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Peel  it;  rub  it  well  with  pounded 
saltpetre  and  ground  black  pepper. 

Put  a  layer  of  salt  at  the  bottom  of  a  salting-dish ; 


BXiF.  357 

on  this  place  the  tongue;  sprinkle  it  with  chopped 
cloves,  thyme,  bay-leaf,  and  other  aromatic  herbs. 
Over  these  pile  plenty  of  salt ;  rub  it  well,  and  turn  it 
in  this  pickle,  every  day  for  a  fortnight.  It  may  then 
be  either  boiled,  or  hung  up  to  dry. 

To  cook  it,  put  it  in  a  soup-kettle  full  of  cold  water, 
with  a  few  onions,  two  or  three  cloves,  and  a  small 
bouquet  of  thyme  and  bay-leaves.  Let  it  simmer  very 
gently  for  four  or  five  hours.  Let  it  cool  in  its  liquor, 
and  then  take  it  out  to  drain  and  be  garnished  on  its 
dish. 

Beef'Tongue  au  Gratin*  Baked.  Peel  the  tongue 
as  directed  in  the  preceding  receipt  Chop  together 
parsley,  chives,  tarragon,  a  few  capers  or  gherkins,,  and 
three  shallots.  Take  as  much  grated  crumb  of  bread  as 
will  fill  an  egg-shell,  and  a  piece  of  butter  of  half  that 
size,  and  mix  well  with  the  chopped  herbs.  Spread 
this  over  the  bottom  of  a  dish  which  will  stand  the  fire. 
Cut  the  tongue  into  thick  slices ;  arrange  half  of  them 
on  the  layer  of  herbs ;  season  with  salt,  peppercorns, 
and  the  rest  of  your  mincings.  Put  a  second  layer  of 
crumbs,  and  season  in  the  same  way.  Cover  the  whole 
with  bread-crumbs;  moisten  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
broth,  and  half  a  glass  of  wine.  Let  it  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  until  done,  taking  care  to  add  more  broth  from 
time  to  time  if  it  gets  too  dry.  N.B.  This  dish  suc- 
ceeds with  greater  certainty  when  a  ready-cooked  tongue 
is  used. 

*  Gratin  literally  means  the  brown  crast  or  concentrated  gnrj 
which  sticks  to  the  dish  in  which  anj  thing  has  been  baked. 


358 

Beff-Tangue^  Braised  or  Ooened.  Scaldand  peel  the 
Umgae  as  before;  prick  with  thin  strips  of  baoon.  Laj 
at  the  bottom  of  your  stew-pan  or  braising-pan  some 
dices  of  bacon ;  on  them  place  &e  tongne,  witb  sliced 
onions,  carrots,  mnshrooms,  parsley,  bay-leaf,  pepper, 
and  salt  Moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  broth  and  white 
wine.  Coyer  the  tongue  with  slices  of  bacon.  Set  the 
stew-pan  on  a  gentle  fire,  and  put  bnming  charcoal 
on  the  lid  In  this  way  the  tongue  will  take  five 
or  six  hours  to  cooL  When  done,  split  it  down  the 
whole  of  its  length,  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  PIquante. 
When  there  is  no  convenience  for  braising,  a  tongue 
may  be  thus  cooked  in  a  slow  oven  in  a  well-closed 
vessel. 

Eoagt  Beef'Tonffue.  Boil  it  a  couple  of  hours,  or 
till  about  half  done,  in  water.  Take  it  up,  peel  off  the 
skin ;  prick  its  upper  surfiice  with  thin  strips  of  bacon ; 
roll  it  in  a  sheet  of  veal  or  lamb  leaf-fat,  and  roast  it 
(not  too  quickly)  before  the  fire.  When  done^  remove 
the  leaf-fiit,  dish  it,  and  pour  over  it  any  high-seasoned 
sauce,  or  rich  brown  gravy  containing  wine  and  either 
capers  or  gherkins  cut  small. 

Miroton*  of  Tongtie — Cold  Tongue  j  heated  up  in  Slices. 
Lay  the  slices  of  tongue,  lapping  one  over  the  other, 
round  the  dish ;  moisten  their  upper  surface  with  very 
good  stock  or  glaze,  and  set  them  in  a  gentle  oven 
covered  unth  another  disL    When  well  warmed  through, 

*  A  French  kitchen  tenn,  Applied  to  the  dressing  of  certain  meats 
and  fish,  or  of  a  collection  of  sereral  slices  of  cold  meat  warmed  up  and 
•erred  in  a  ragoAt  of  onions. 


BEEF.  359 

-fill  the  middle  of  the  dish  with  stewed  sliced  onions, 
mashed  turnips^  pur&  of  sorrel  or  spinach. 

Miroton  of  Cold  Beef.  Half  fiy  in  batter  a  good 
quantity  of  sliced  onions.  When  they  are  nicely 
browned,  add  a  dust  of  flour,  some  mushrooms,  a  litde 
stock,  and  a  wineglass  of  red  wine.  Let  these  simmer 
over  a  gentle  fire  until  the  onions  are  cooked  to  a  pulp. 
Set  it  on  the  side  of  your  stove ;  put  in  your  slices  of 
beef  (nicely  trimmed  and  cut  very  thin)  to  warm  up 
and  absorb  the  sauce.  They  must  not  boil.  When  it  is 
time  to  serve,  arrange  the  slices  of  beef  with  a  spoon 
and  fork  all  round  the  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  in  the 
middle.  Some  cooks  heighten  the  seasoning  of  this 
with  a  dash  of  mustard;  but  it  is  apt  to  disagree 
with  weak  stomachs. 

Beef'Kidneyy  SautM  in  Wine.  Cut  up  the  kidney  into 
^sery  thin  slices.  Qive  them  a  toss  or  two  in  butter  in  a 
stew-pan  over  a  brisk  fire.  As  soon  as  they  begin  to 
cook,  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  chopped  sweet  herbs, 
sliced  mushrooms  (if  you  can  get  them) ;  moisten  with 
a  small  quantity  of  half  good  broth  and  half  red  wine ; 
reason  with  lemon-juice,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dust  of 
grated  nutmeg.  Let  it  simmer  gently  three  or  four 
minutes,  and  serve.  Tou  may  garnish  it  round  with 
toast 

Few  dishes  are  more  easily  spoiled  and  rendered 
indigestible  than  this  excellent  preparation.  Too  long 
or  too  fiercely  cooked,  the  slices  of  kidney  become  like 
slips  of  leather ;  whereas,  they  ought  to  be  quite  tender 
and  full  of  juice. 


360 

Berf-PalaUs.  Steep  them  in  sali-and-water ;  boil 
ihem  until  the  skin  will  peel  off;  thej  are  then  readj 
for  dresBing  in  varionB  ways^^  la  PauUtUj  with  brown 
gravy  and  stewed  onions ;  in  a  vol-au'^oentf  with  sweet- 
bread and  mushrooms ;  fricasseed  with  pease  or  cuenm- 
bers ;  sliced,  bread*crumbed,  and  broiled,  or  in  any  of 
the  other  modes  of  dishing  up  things  which  have  not 
much  natural  flavour  of  their  own. 


HUTTON  AND  LAMB.  361 


XII. 

MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

"Hkavbn,"  said  the  Welsh  preacher,  searching  hard 
for  a  comparison, — "  Heaven  is  like — is  like — is  like — 
Heaven  is  like — Boiled  Mutton  and  Turnips."  But  the 
Cambrian  Heaven  is  still  incomplete,  if  caper  sauce  be 
lacking  to  it. 

J£  Railways  have  done  injury  to  London  beef,  they 
have  enriched  London's  supply  of  Mutton.  We  can 
now  enjoy  Welsh  heavenly  mutton,  without  going  to 
Wales  to  eat  it. 

Boast  Leg  of  Mutton  may  be  a  vulgar  dish ;  neverthe- 
1<96S,  it  is  both  succulent  and  nutritive,  especially  if  it 
has  made  people  wait  for  it,  like  other  self-important 
personages,  and  if  it  also  presents  an  internal  aspect  as 
sanguinary  at  heart  as  a  New-Zealand  cannibal.  Li 
this  case,  it  retains  both  its  tenderness  and  its  gravy ;  in 
other  words,  to  eat  it  in  all  its  gloiy,  it  must  not  be 
over-done.  At  the  first  cut  of  the  carving-knife,  brook- 
lets of  juice  ought  to  issue  firom  its  streaming  sides.  Its 
slices,  thin  and  of  a  rosy  red,  will  favourably  impress 
the  delighted  palate,  previous  to  supplying  the  most 
weary  stomach  with  an  aliment  as  salutary  as  it  is  sub- 
stantial. If  the  Leg  be  not  quite  cooked  enough,  it  is 
easy  to  apply  a  remedy,  in  the  dining-room  itself,  by 


362  MUTTON  AlID  LAMB. 

giving  a  few  slices  a  toss  or  two  in  a  sauoepan,  in  a  litde 
of  their  own  gravy,  over  a  clear  fire.  If  it  be  avernianey 
the  case  is  past  hope,  the  misfortune  irreparable. 

Doubtless,  the  exact  point  is  diflScult  to  hit ;  a  torn 
or  two  more  will  involve  the  disgrace  or  the  glory  of 
the  most  aristocratic  of  Legs  of  Mutton.  But  these 
niceties  are  not  to  be  learned  from  Cook-Books  merely ; 
practice  and  experience  alone  can  teach  them.  The  rule, 
as  with  beef,  of  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  every  pound  of 
mutton  to  be  roasted,  is  only  approximative — a  near 
approach  to  the  exact  time  required.  The  art  of  roasting 
meat  to  perfection  is  one  of  the  most  difficult  existing. 
For  twenty  good  cooks  (of  other  things),  you  will  not 
find  more  than  one  or  two  good  Roasters. 

On  the  Continent,  a  clove  of  garlic  is  often  introduced 
into  the  flesh  of  a  Leg  of  Mutton  to  be  roasted,  near  the 
knuckle.  It  is  a  question  of  taste.  The  Doctor  does 
not  like  it,  holding  that  garlic  is  incompatible  with  the 
flavour  oi  roast  mutton  (although  it  is  admissible  into 
hashes  and  stews  composed  of  that  meat) ;  and  that  it  is 
<iuite  incongruous  with  currant  jelly  as  an  accompani- 
ment. 

Roa^t  Shoulder  of  Mutton  is  often  tenderer  than  the 
Leg,  and  it  has  a  peculiar  flavour  of  its  own  which  finds 
its  admirers.  Who  does  not  remember  with  unction  the 
satisfaction  to  be  derived  from  Shoulder  of  Mutton  and 
Kidney  Beans?  The  Shoulder  may  be  roasted,  boned 
and  rolled — a  convenience,  but  hardly  an  improvement 

All  Roast  Mutton  should  be  served  with  et>ery  thing 
hot — ^hot  dishes,  hot  plates,  hot  gravy,  hot  spoons  to 


HUTTON  ASD  LAMB*  363 

serve  it  with,  hot  vegetables,  and  (as  a  novelfy)  hot 
knives  and  forks. 

When  a  leg  of  mutton  is  hardly  tender  enough  to 
bear  the  honours  of  the  jack,  it  makes  an  admirable 
Brats€j  under  the  name  of  a  Seven-Houni*  Leg ;  served 
reposing  on  a  bed  of  vegetables,  varying  according  to 
ihe  season.     It  is  far  too  good  to  be  omitted  here. 

Gigot  au  JuSy  or  a  la  RoyaU — Leg  of  Mutton  in 
iSravyy  a  dish  for  a  Queetu 

Put  a  nice  leg  of  mutton  into  your  stew-pan,  with 
eight  large  carrots  cut  in  slices,  twelve  onions,  a  calf's 
foot,  or  a  pound  of  knuckle  of  veal,  and  a  little  salt 
Cover  all  with  water,  and  let  it  simmer  over  a  gentle 
fire. 

When  the  mutton  begins  to  shrink  from  the  bone, 
and  is  about  half  done,  take  it  out  of  the  stew-pan.  Let 
the  rest  boil,  until  it  is  reduced  to  about  three  pints ; 
then  strain  it  through  a  napkin  or  a  sieve,  pressing  the 
vegetables  and  veal  a  little  hard.  Let  it  cool  to  a  jelly, 
and  take  off  the  fai  It  is  better  to  prepare  the  dish  thus 
far  the  day  before  it  is  wanted. 

Replace  the  leg  of  mutton  in  the  stew-pan  with  the 
gravy-jelly.  Let  it  boil,  close  covered,  not  too  fast,  a 
couple  of  hours,  taking  care  to  prevent  its  burning  or 
stacking  to  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish 
with  the  gravy,  which  will  be  concentrated  and  highly 
flavoured,  garnishing  the  edge  with  slices  of  lemon. 

In  the  north  of  England,  hot  mutton  (roast  especially) 
is  often  accompanied  by  cold  Ham ;  and  the  association 
is  far  from  disagreeable. 


364  MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton  is  one  of  the  simplest  and 
most  delicate  of  meats,  yielding  only  to  its  offspring. 
Boiled  Leg  of  Lamb.  Keep  it  awhile,  but  not  too  long ; 
hot  water  must  replace  the  effects  of  time.  Put  it  on 
the  fire,  well  covered,  in  cold  water,  with  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  salt.  Take  off  all  scum  as  fast  as  it  rises. 
When  it  boils,  draw  it  aside,  allowing  it  only  to  simmer 
gently  from  three  to  four  hours. 

An  hour  before  you  judge  it  will  be  enough,  throw 
in  turnips  peeled  and  halved,  carrots  idem^  a  few  whole 
onions,  and  a  couple  of  sticks  of  celery.  If  these  chill 
the  water  too  much,  the  pot  can  be  set  on  the  fire  again, 
to  be  withdrawn  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  afresh. 

On  serving,  garnish  your  leg  of  mutton  with  a  circle 
of  the  vegetables  (whole)  on  the  dish,  taking  care  to 
reserve  turnips  enough  to  mash  with  cream,  pepper,  and 
salt,  to  be  sent  up  in  a  separate  dish. 

Accompany  Boiled  Leg  of  Mutton  or  Lamb  with 
caper  sauce,  or,  in  default  of  capers,  with  pickled  nas- 
turtium seeds  and  flower-buds,  or  chopped  gherkins, 
thrown  into  white  sauce. 

Boiled  Shoulder  of  Mutton  is  served  as  above ;  only, 
instead  of  being  accompanied  by  mashed  turnips,  it 
rather  calls  for  onion  sauce,  t.  e.  onions  boiled  very  soft 
(together  with  the  mutton),  and  then  either  merely 
mashed  with  pepper,  salt,  and  cream,  or  squeezed  through 
a  cullender,  so  as  to  make  a  pur£e ;  the  choice  being  left 
to  the  cook*s  convenience. 

Boiled  Neck  of  Mutton  competes  with  the  above  in 
popularity.     Being  smaller,  it  is  convenient  for  small 


MUTTON  AKD  LAMB,  365 

families,  and  maybe  further  diminished  by  having  a  few 
chops  taken  from  its  best  end.  It  takes  less  time  to 
cook — another  convenience. 

The  Boilings  of  every  joint  of  Mutton  whatsoever 
will  be  carefully  utilised  by  the  cook. 

The  Neck  may  be  also  roasted  and  stewed,  as  well 
as  boiled ;  the  Shoulder  lends  itself  to  the  same  diversity 
of  treatment,  enabling  the  accomplished  cook  to  show 
that  her  intellect  is  an  inexhaustible  storehouse  of  learned 
receipts. 

The  Zom  and  the  Saddle  (or  double  loin)  are  almost 
always  Boasted;  although  the  former  is  occasionally 
Stewed.  The  Loin,  too,  is  often  cut  up  into  chops  or 
cutlets ;  the  various  ways  of  dressing  which  alone  would 
fill  a  bulky  and  elaborate  volume.  Soyer  even  invented 
the  plan  of  cutting  up  the  Saddle  into  cutlets — a  heresy 
and  a  profanation,  many  would  say,  wei-e  not  utility  and 
convenience  paramount  in  all  tilings  culinary — perform- 
ing the  operation  thus : 

Sot/ePs  new  Mutton- Chop.  Trim  a  middling-sized 
saddle  of  mutton,  which  cut  into  chops  half  an  inch  in 
thickness,  with  a  saw,  without  at  all  making  use  of  a 
knife  (the  sawing  them  off  jagging  the  meat  and  causing 
ihem  to  eat  more  tender) ;  then  trim  them  into  shape, 
season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  them  upon  a 
gridiron  over  a  sharp  fire,  turning  them  three  or  four 
times.  They  would  require  ten  minutes'  cooking.  When 
done,  dress  them  upon  a  hot  dish,  spread  a  small  piece 
of  butter  over  each  (if  approved  of),  and  serve.  By  add- 
ing half  a  table-spoonful  of  Soyer's  Gentlemen's  or 


366  s       KUTTOK  Amy  laub. 

Ladies'  Sauce  to  each  cliop  when  serving,  and  toming- 
it  over  two  or  three  times,  you  produce  an  excellent 
entrde.  The  bone  keeping  the  gravy  in  whilst  cooking, 
it  is  a  great  advantage  to  have  chops  cut  after  the  above 
method.  At  home,  when  I  (Alexis  Soyer)  have  a  saddle- 
of  mutton,  I  usually  cut  two  or  three  such  chops,  which 
I  broil,  rub  Maitre  d'Hdtel  butter  over,  and  serve  with 
fried  potatoes  round ;  using  the  remainder  of  the  saddle 
the  next  day  for  a  joint  The  above  are  also  very  excel- 
lent, well  seasoned  and  dipped  into  egg  and  bread-crumbs 
previous  to  broiling. 

Lamb' Chops  may  be  cut  precisely  the  same,  but 
require  broiling  a  few  minutes  less. 

By  this  plan,  the  fat  and  lean  are  better  divided, 
and  you  can  enjoy  both.  Whilst  the  old  way  of  cutting 
Mutton-Chops  produces  a  lump  of  meat  near  the  bone,, 
and  fat  at  the  other  end,  which  partly  melts  in  cooking,, 
and  is  often  burnt  by  the  flame  it  makes ;  the  new  way,, 
not  dividing  the  bone,  keeps  the  gravy  in  admirably.. 
If  well  sawed,  it  should  not  weigh  more  than  an  ordinary 
chop,  being  about  half  the  thickness. 

The  Doctor* 8  Mutton^Steah  Choose,  by  preference,, 
a  small  or  middle-sized  Leg  of  Mutton ;  Welsh  or  South- 
down is  the  best.  Cut  it  in  halves,  right  across  the 
internal  kernel  of  fat  reverently  spoken  of  as  "  the  Pope's- 
Eye."  Saw  the  bone  neatly  through.  From  the  inner 
side  of  each  of  these  halves  take  one  or  more  slices  of 
mutton,  not  more  than  three-quarters  and  not  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick,  performing  the  operation  with  a  very 
sharp  knife,  and  sawing  the  bone  skilfully  through^ 


HUTTON  AND  LAMB.  367 

Tour  bntcher,  perhaps,  will  exeonte  it  for  you  more- 
neatijy  and  widi  less  hacking,  than  jour  oook  can  da 
You  will  thus  have  two  or  more  handsome  oval-shaped 
steaks  of  matton-flesh. 

Slightly  peppar  and  salt  your  steaks  on  both  sides ; 
grill  them  over  a  eharooal  fire,  turning  them  several 
times  with  your  steak-tongs.  Serve  on  a  dish  so  hot 
that  yon  cannot  take  hold  of  it  without  a  napkin,  and 
pour  over  each  steak  a  dessert-spoonful  of  first-rate 
mushroom  ketchup,  for  which  Harvey's  or  Worcester- 
shire Sauce  may  be  substituted. 

The  Doctor^ 8  Mutton^Steak^  Fried,  is  good,  but  far 
inferior  to  BroUed,     It  is  also  excellent  thus : 

Stewed.  Just  brown  yom:  steaks  on  each  side  in  the 
firying-pah,  or  in  the  large,  shallow  stew-pan  in  whidi 
they  are  to  be  finished  off.  Then  cover  the  steaks  with 
a  variety  of  any  good  vegetables  that  are  in  season; 
green  pease,  young  carrots,  small  turnips  sliced,  celery 
cut  into  small  pieces,  a  few  leaves  of  sorrel  and  parsley,, 
haricots,  &o.  &c  Moisten  with  a  teaoupfiil  of  mutton 
broth,  and  half  a  glass  of  wine  (white  or  red).  Let  the 
cover  of  the  stew-pan  fit  down  as  close  as  possible. 
Simmer  very  gently  over  a  slow  fire,  giving  a  shake 
from  time  to  time,  to  make  sure  that  nothing  sticks 
to  the  bottom.  It  takes  a  considerable  time  to  do 
thoroughly,  but  has  the  advantage  of  being  able  to  be 
kept  hot,  and  always  remaining  in  readiness. 

The  Doctor's  Steaks  help  small  families  or  new- 
married  couples  to  an  agreeable  way  of  disposing  of  that 
somewhat  heavy  joint,  a  Leg  of  Mutton.    Thus,  they 


368  MUTTON  AND  LAJCB. 

can  have:  First  Day,  Mutton-Steaks;  Second  Day, 
something  else;  Third  Day,  Thick  End,  Boasted; 
Fourth  Day,  something  else ;  Fifth  Day,  Knuckle  Boiled 
or  Stewed ;  Sixth  Day,  what  they  please. 

Lamb-ChopSj  with  Cucumber  Satusej  or  vnih  Purde  of 
Cvcamber.  For  the  Cucumber  Sauce,  peel,  slice,  pepper 
and  salt,  one  or  more  cucumbers,  exactly  as  if  for  eating 
uncooked.  At  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan  put  in  a  little 
bit  of  butter ;  when  it  is  melted,  stir  in  a  dust  of  flour. 
On  this  place  your  sliced  cucumber;  add  just  enough 
stock  or  mutton  broth  to  cover  it,  and  boil  till  the 
slices  are  quite  tender,  without,  however,  falling  to 
pieces. 

If  you  have  the  means,  hroSL  the  Lamb-Chops,  egged 
and  bread-crumbed ;  if  you  have  not,  you  have  no  choice 
but  to  fry  them. 

When  done,  arrange  them  regularly  round  your 
(very  hot)  dish.  Add  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar  to 
your  Cucumber  Sauce^  give  it  another  boil  up,  and 
serve  it  in  the  centre  of  the  Chops,  so  that  each  person, 
in  helping  himself  to  a  chop,  can  also  take  a  portion  of 
the  cucumber. 

Supposing  that  you  have/rt^  your  chops,  English 
fashion,  in  the  least  possible  quantity  of  butter  sufficient 
to  keep  them  from  burning,  you  may  turn  to  good 
account  the  small  remnant  of  gravy  left  in  the  pan, 
thus :  When  the  chops  are  laid  round  their  dish,  and  the 
vinegar  added  to  the  Cucumber  Sauce,  after  boiling  up^ 
take  out  the  cucumber  with  a  spoon,  and  lay  it  in  the 
middle  of  the  chops.     Pour  the  liquid  sauce  that  is  left 


KUTTON  AKD  LAMB.  369 

in  the  stew-pan  to  the  gravy  in  your  fiying-pan.  Set 
it  on  the  fire,  and  stir  with  a  fork.  When  the  two  are 
well  incorporated,  pour  the  combined  sauees  boiling  hot 
over  the  Chops  and  ilie  Cucnmber. 

For  the  Purie  of  Cucumbersj  peel  several  cucumberS| 
not  too  far  advanced.  Boil  the  peelings  in  water  or 
mutton  broth,  until  it  has  acquired  their  flavour.  Taste 
that  it  is  not  too  bitter,  in  which  case  it  must  be  diluted, 
or  rejected.  When  this  liquor  is  to  your  taste,  boil  in 
it  your  cucumbers,  cut  into  pieces,  until  they  becomor 
a  pulp  which  you  can  squeeze  through  your  cullender. 
After  squeezing,  return  them  to  the  saucepan,  and  season 
with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar.  Give  another 
boil  up,  taking  care  not  to  bum,  and  pour  the  pur^  in 
the  middle  of  the  chops. 

Muttan^Kidneysj  SautM  vntli  Wine.  The  same  pro- 
ceeding as  with  beef-kidney,  and  the  same  precautions 
not  to  overdo  them. 

Muttou'Eidneysj  Broiled.  Peel  off  the  thin  outer 
skin  of  the  kidneys ;  split  them  down  the  middle  on  the 
hollow  side,  without  entirely  separating  them ;  sprinkle 
their  inner  surfaces  with  pepper  and  salt.  The  kidneys 
should  only  be  turned  once  on  the  gridiron ;  therefore, 
to  keep  the  gravy  in,  expose  the  cut  side  jflrst  to  the 
action  of  the  fire,  afterwards  the  outer  side.  If  taken  off 
the  gridiron  at  exactly  the  right  moment,  they  will  be 
tender  and  full  of  gravy ;  if  allowed  to  remain  too  long, 
they  will  be  dry,  leathery,  and  slwivelled  up.  As  soon 
as  the  kidneys  are  dished,  put  in  the  middle  of  each  a 
piece  of  sweet  butter  as  big  as  a  hazel-nut,  and  a  good 

B  B 


370  KUTTOK  AND  UUIB. 

pinch  of  finely  chopped  parsley  and  chervil^  to  which 
some  cooks  add  spring  onions  or  chives. 

MtUUm-Kidnei/s  may  be  Fried j  but  they  require  even 
more  cautions  treatment  than  in  broiling.  In  the  &t 
and  gravy  left  in  the  pan,  a  few  fresh  eggs  may  be 
briskly  fried,  and  served  in  the  same  dish  with  the 

MuUon-Kidneys^  Roasted  or  Toaatedy  in  a  Dutch  or 
American  oven.  After  peeling  off  the  thin  skin  and 
opening  them,  these  are  spitted  on  thin  iron  spits,  and 
so  suspended  in  the  oven  before  the  fire.  A  consider- 
able quantity  of  gravy  will  sometimes  drop  from  them, 
which  may  be  received  on  a  toast  at  the  bottom  of 
the  oven.  On  this  toast  serve  the  kidneys,  garnish- 
ing each  one  with  butter  and  minced  sweet  herbs,  as 
before. 

A  few  roasted  sausages  make  a  very  nice  accompani- 
ment to  Mutton-Kidneys. 

MuUan-Kidnet/Sy  in  Champagne  Wine.  Peel  the 
kidneys,  slice  them  thin,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  half  an  eggshellful  of  minced  beef-^et  for  every 
half-dozen  kidneys.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  grated 
nutmeg,  chopped  parsley,  and  mushrooms.  Toss  them 
over  a  brisk  fire.  As  soon  as  they  begin  to  cook,  dredge 
in  a  teaspooniul  of  flour,  and  add  a  wine-glassful  or 
more  of  Champagne  [or  any  other  good  light,  sweet, 
white  wine ;  for,  between  us,  and  quite  in  confidence,  it 
comes  to  the  same ;  even  first-rate  cider  will  pass  without 
cavil].  Stir  them  all  the  while  they  are  on  the  fire,  on 
which  they  must  not  remain  more  than  four  or  five 


MUTTOK  AJSID  LAMB.  371 

minutes.     Just  before  serving,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter 
as  big  as  a  walnut,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Mutton- Cutlets  a  la  Jardiniire.  Boil  in  stock  or 
good  mutton  broth  some  fresh  haricots,  green  peas, 
sprigs  of  cauliflower,  all  sorts  of  roots  cut  into  short 
lengths  or  punched  into  shapes,  with  a  few  mushrooms. 
When  cooked,  throw  them  into  a  stew-pan  in  which  you 
have  made  a  rottr,  and  let  them  simmer. 

Meanwhile,  fry  your  cutlets  in  butter,  arrange  them 
on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  them  your  ragoiit  of  vege- 
tables. Of  course,  you  can  only  employ  such  vegetables 
as  take  the  same  time  to  cook;  any  others  must  be 
cooked  apart,  as  also  should  potatoes,  if  used.  Proceed 
in  exactly  the  same  way  with  Veal- Cutlets  or  Pork- Chops 
a  la  Jardinikre* 

Sheeps*  Trotters.  You  can  procure  these  of  your 
butcher  ready  cleaned  and  scalded,  fit  for  cooking. 
Keep  them  steeped  in  cold  water  until  you  set  them  on 
ihe  fire.  Boil  them  until  enough  done,  which  will  take 
from  four  to  five  hours  at  least ;  the  test  of  which  is  the 
bones  coming  away  easily  from  the  flesh  and  tendon& 
If  over-done,  they  become  flabby  and  insipid.  With  a 
knife  and  fork  take  out  all  the  bones,  and  cut  up  the 
•eatable  part  which  is  left  into  morsels  of  handsome  shape 
and  convenient  size  to  serve  with  a  dessert-spoon.  So 
prepared,  the  trotters  may  be  set  aside,  to  be  finished 
oS  in  any  form  which  it  may  be  wished  to  give  to  them* 

As  the  boilings  of  the  trotters  make  good  stock- 
broth  for  soup  and  other  purposes,  an  hour  before  they 
are  boiled  enough  you  may  add  the  usual  soup  vegc- 


372  UUTTOK  ASD  lAXB. 

tables,  u  e.  carrots,  oiiions,  leeks,  turnips,  celery,  with  a 
bouquet  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  few  cloves  and  pepper- 
corns; all  of  which  will  improve  the  flavour  of  the  trot- 
ters themselves. 

Pieda  de  Mouton  h  la  Foulette — Slieepa*  Feet  h  la 
Pofulette.  Take  a  little  of  the  stock  in  a  stew-pan. 
Thicken  it  with  yolk  of  egg,  cream  or  milk,  butter,  and 
a  very  little  flour.  Add  pepper  or  cayenne,  lemon-juice 
or  chili  vinegar,  salt,  white  onions  boiled  tender  and 
well  mashed,  and  a  few  button  mushrooms.  Heat  the 
prepared  trotters  in  this,  and  serve  with  just  enough  of 
the  sauce,  well  boiled  up  and  thickened,  to  cover  them. 
Thk  dUh  is  largely  consumed  in  Paris. 

Another  vnay.  Put  a  good  lump  of  butter  into  a 
stew-pan.  As  it  melts,  stir  in  a  table-spoonful  of  flour. 
Add  a  little  cream,  to  give  the  indispensable  whiteness, 
pepper  and  salt,  and  dilute  with  your  stock  to  the  re- 
quired consistency.  When  it  boils,  throw  in  some  finely 
chopped  parsley,  in  the  same  proportion  as  for  parsley 
and  butter.  When  your  trotters  have  been  thoroughly 
warmed  in  this  (ofi*  the  fire),  give  a  final  boil  up,  and 
serve.  N.B.  In  mountainous  countries  and  other  dis- 
tricts where  veal  is  scarce,  sheeps'  trotters  are  employed 
to  imitate  calf's  head;  either  plain,  with  brain  sauce 
seasoned  with  sage,  ox  a  la  Tortue^  with  the  usual  ao- 
oompaniments.  They  may  even  be  made  to  furnish 
very  fair  Mock  Mock-Turtle. 

Boast  Leg  of  Lamh  (or  other  small  joint  of  meat), 
done  in  a  Saucepan.  You  hear,  in  France,  of  a  leg  of 
mutton  being  "  r6ti  devant  le  feu" — roasted  before  the 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB.  373 

fire,  and  '^^roii  a  la  ca8serol6"-7roasted  in  a  saucepan; 
and  both  are  very  good.  They  will  tell  you  that  onrs  is 
the  ooontry  for  splendid  roasts,  when  you  slaughter  your 
holocaost ;  but  for  a  little  bit,  good  sense  and  economy 
forbid!  However  good  a  cut  out  of  twelve  or  twenty 
pounds  of  beef  may  be,  we  must  admit  that  Sunday's 
roast,  Monday's  cold,  Tuesday's  hash,  Wednesday's 
mince,  and  Thursday's  broth  made  firom  the  bones,  is 
enough  to  send  any  man  to  dine  at  a  dub. 

Therefore  should  ladies  who  love  their  lords  know 
something  about  roasting  in  a  casserole  or  saucepan. 
You  must  have  a  very  poor  fire.  This  supposes  that 
you  have  nothing  more  than  an  ordinary  Htchen-range ; 
at  which,  with  care,  you  may  manage  to  do  it  success- 
fully. But  a  good  fire  will  be  fatal  to  the  operation. 
It  must  be  dear,  and  yet  produce  but  a  moderate  heat. 

"  O'er  the  pale  emben  of  a  dying  fire, 

His  little  lampe  fed  with  but  little  oile, 
The  Curate  sate,  for  seaatie  was  his  hire. 
And  ruminated  sad  the  morrowe's  toile." 

This  is  just  the  fire  at  which  to  roast  in  a  saucepan. 
As,  in  consequence  of  early  habits,  you  will  only  gra- 
dually renounce  large  joints,  begin  with  a  leg  of  lamb, 
if  you  have  an  oval  iron  pot  for  it  (or  a  copper  one) ;  a 
tin  one  is  out  of  the  question. 

Put  in  a  spoonful  of  dripping ;  when  melted,  place 
the  meat  in  the  pot,  sprinkled  with  a  little  salt;  shut 
down  the  lid,  and  leave  it  over  the  fire  on  the  trivet 
Shake  it  up  from  time  to  time,  to  prevent  it  from  burn- 
ing ;  turn  it  over  and  over,  that  it  may  be  done  equally. 


374  MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

Should  there  not  be  sufficient  moisture,  add  a  little  &t ; 
but  it  will  rarely  be  needed. 

When  you  consider  the  joint  done,  there  will  always 
be  superfluous  grease  to  pour  off.  After  placing  the 
meat  on  a  hot  dish,  add  a  little  water  or  stock  to  the 
grease,  gradually  mixing  in  a  spoonful  of  flour;  season 
with  a  dust  of  pepper  and  salt,  or  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
ketchup  or  Harvey's  sauce ;  boil  up,  and  it  will  form  a 
nice  gravy,  which,  after  straining,  you  may  pour  over 
the  meat ;  and  it  is  ready  for  table. 

By  this  method,  all  the  juice  and  flavour  is  con* 
eentrated  in  the  meat ;  none  can  evaporate.  The  food 
BO  cooked  is  consequently  more  nourishing.  If  properly 
done,  it  looh  like  a  joint  roasted  before  the  fire.  An 
experienced  person  may  discover  the  difierence,  but 
many  prefer  the  former.  The  advantage  in  the  saying 
of  fuel  is  immense.  In  one  instance,  you  want  the 
fiercest  fire ;  in  the  other,  the  contrary.  For  veal,  this 
method  is  incomparably  the  best,  and  for  all  meats  much 
to  be  preferred  in  a  small  family.  When  adopted  as  a 
regular  system,  cold  meat  is  so  thoroughly  abolished 
that,  very  often,  it  is  only  by  great  good  management 
that  you  can  ever  have  a  nice  little  bit  cold  for  break- 
fast— London  Society. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  ii  la  Sainte'M4nehould*^^Saini 
Minehould  Way.  Bone  a  shoulder  of  mutton,  and 
stew  it  with  a  little  1»x>th,  a  bouquet  of  parsley  and 

*  Who  St.  M^nehonld  was,  the  Doctor  knows  not ;  but  Sainta* 
M^ehould  is  a  small  town  in  the  north  of  France  (Departement  de 
I'Aisne),  once  fiunous,  on  Victor  Hugo's  authority,  for  the  excellence 
of  its  cookery. 


MUTTOK  ilO)  LAMB.  375 

chives,  a  dove  of  garlic,  three  or  four  cloves,  a  baj4eaf, 
thyme,  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  pepper  and  salt  When 
the  mutton  is  cooked,  take  it  out  of  the  stew-pan,  drain 
it,  and  place  it  on  a  disL  Pour  over  it  a  little  high« 
seasoned,  strongly  concentrated  gravy,  or,  if  you  have 
none,  some  of  its  own  gravy  with  the  fat  skimmed  off. 
Sprinkle  it  with  crumbs  of  bread ;  rub  three  egg-yolks 
into  a  little  oiled  butter,  spread  the. mixture  over  your 
mutton,  and  then  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  again.  Set 
it  a  little  while  in  a  brisk  oven  or  under  a  sala- 
mander, basting  it  with  a  little  oiled  butter.  When 
nicely  browned,  take  it  out,  and  serve  with  its  own 
gravy  strained  and  boiled  down  a  little. 

Sheep^8  Tonffites  teith  Purdg.  Simply  boil  them  in 
your  soup-kettle ;  peel  off  their  skin ;  split  them  length- 
wise in  halves,  and  serve  on  a  purfo  of  dried  peas, 
haricots,  lentils,  or  potatoes. 

Sheeps*  Tongues  en  PapiUotes — m  Curl^pctpers. 
Scald,  peel,  and  stew  with  vegetables,  the  tongues  which 
you  require  to  serve.  If  you  have  only  one  or  two  to 
cook,  you  may  boil  them  as  above  in  your  soup-kettle. 
When  they  are  quite  enough  (and  sheeps'  tongues  take 
a  deal  of  cooking  to  make  them  tender),  split  them  in 
two,  and  let  them  cooL  Smear  them  with  butter,  into 
which  fine-chopped  sweet  herbs  have  been  worked ;  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  allspice;  wrap  each  half-tongue 
in  oiled  paper ;  broil  them  over  a  gentle  fire ;  and  serve 
very  hot,  without  taking  them  out  of  the  paper. 

Mutton  with  Haricots.  Take  a  shoulder  or  a  breast 
of  mutton ;  cut  it  in  pieces ;  brown  them  in  butter  in  a 


376  KUTTOK  AND  LAMB. 

8tew-pan,  and  moisten  with  mutton  broth  or  hot  water, 
stirring  it  in  gradaally.  Add  yonr  haricots  (fresh,  in 
summer ;  if  dried,  thej  must  have  been  steeped  all  night), 
with  pepper,  salt,  thyme,  bay-leaf,  and  a  morsel  of  gar- 
lic.    Let  all  simmer  together  for  three  or  four  hours. 

Harricoed  Mutton.  Cut  up  a  breast  or  a  neck  of 
mutton  into  pieces ;  brown  them  with  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan  over  a  brisk  fire.  When  nicely  fftltj  take  them  out 
and  drain. 

Peel  and  slice  some  turnips,  and  fry  them  also  to  a 
light  brown  on  both  sides ;  put  them  into  your  harrico ; 
moisten  with  broth,  adding  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  onions, 
cloves,  and  bay-lea£  Stew  for  half  an  hour,  and  take 
off  the  fat.  Kthe  sauce  is  too  thin,  reduce  it  by  boiling. 
Pile  your  harrico  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  and  lay  the 
turnips  round  it 

The  turnips  in  the  harrico  may  be  replaced  by  salsify, 
potatoes,  or  carrots. 

Mutton  is  converted  into  Mock  Venison  by  marinad- 
ing with  wine,  vinegar,  spice,  and  aromatic  herbs. 

Sashed  Mutton.  Cut  the  least  done  parts  of  cold 
roast  mutton  into  small,  neat  slices,  trimming  off  any 
skin  or  brown  outside,  especially  if  the  latter  is  burnt 
in  the  least  Dust  these  slices  on  each  side  with  flour, 
pepper,  and  salt 

Fry  a  few  sliced  onions ;  when  brown,  put  them  in 
your  stew-pan  with  a  little  broth.  Crush  in  a  teacup 
half  a  pickled  walnut  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Harvey ^s 
sauce  and  half  a  glass  of  red  wine.  Stew  these  together 
till  the  onions  are  reduced  quite  to  a  pulp.     Then  with- 


KUTTON  AlID  LAMB.  377 

draw  the  stew-pan  from  the  fire,  pat  in  tlie  sliced  mutton, 
and  let  it  simmer  wry  gently  for  half  an  hour.  If  it  boil 
np,  the  mutton  will  be  hard. 

By  omitting  the  pickled  walnut,  putting  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  currant  jelly  instead,  and  adding  a  bouquet 
of  thyme,  basil,  and  marioram,  and  seasoning  a  Uttle 
more^gUy  witi  spice  anJwine,  you  will  have  very  good 

Mock  Hashed  Venison. 

Sheeps*  Brains.  In  all  the  animals  and  birds  that' 
are  slaughtered  for  food,  the  brain  is  considered  as  a 
delicacy ;  and  yet  that  part,  with  us,  is  very  often  ne- 
glected. The  reason  may  be,  that  large  brains,  as  those 
of  the  ox,  are  unsightly  presented  whole,  and  require 
cooking  in  portions — ^which  is  troublesome ;  while  those 
of  the  smaller  animals,  game,  and  poultry,  are  too  small 
to  be  worth  collecting.  And  yet  every  body  has  heard 
of  the  prodigality  of  ancient  Soman  epicures,  who 
served  costly  dishes  of  the  brains  of  peacocks. 

Sheeps'  brains,  being  intermediate  in  size,  are  per- 
fectly convenient  to  serve;  in  large  towns,  they  are 
easily  procured  in  quantity,  at  a  moderate  price ;  and 
they  make  a  light  and  agreeable  variety  to  the  ordinary 
routine  of  dishes.  The  great  point  is  to  dress  them^m 
in  substance;  to  insure  which,  they  must  be  fresh. 
Brains,  for  anatomical  investigation,  are  hardened  by 
being  boiled  in  oil ;  the  cook  must  endeavour  to  attain 
the  same  result  by  the  sudden  application  of  great  heat 

In  whatever  form  sheeps'  brains  are  to  be  sent  to 
table,  they  must  be  soaked  in  salt-and-water,  as  soon  as 
received,  for  an  hour  or  two,  to  cleanse  them  and  draw 


378  MUTTON  AND  LAHB. 

out  the  blood ;  then  thrown  into  hMing  salt-and-water^ 
boiled  galloping  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  taken 
out  to  drain  and  cool ;  when  thej  are  ready  for  further 
dressing.  In  this  state,  they  will  keep  good  for  a  day 
or  longer  in  quite  cool  weather ;  but  all  animal  medul- 
lary substance  is  subject  to  rapid  decomposition,  and 
should  never  be  allowed  to  remain  long  in  the  larder.  If 
a  head  is  wanted  to  be  kept  for  a  day  or  two,  the  hrain» 
should  be  cooked  and  seasoned  immediately. 

Sheepa*  Brains  ci  la  Poidette.  Make  the  same  sauce 
as  for  sheeps'  feet.  Moisten  each  brain  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon-juice;  sprinkle  it  all  over  with  sage- 
leaves  and  sweet  marjoram,  or  basil,  in  powder,  or  very 
finely  minced ;  then  heat  them  up  together  in  the  sauce, 
letting  them  simmer  for  twenty  minutes.  Arrange  the 
brains  on  their  dish,  heat  the  sauce  to  the  boOing  point, 
and  then  pour  it  over  them. 

Sheeps'  Brainsy  Fried.  It  is  useless  to  attempt  ihi» 
dish  unless  you  can  command  plenty  of  hot  fat  in  a  deep 
frying-pan.  If  you  can,  smear  the  brains  with  beaten 
egg;  roll  them  in  bread-crumbs  mixed  with  a  little 
pepper  and  sage  or  marjoram  powder ;  plunge  them  into 
your  fat  when  it  has  reached  its  proper  temperature ;  as 
soon  as  they  are  of  a  clear,  light  brown,  take  ihem  out 
and  serve.  They  will  require  little  sauce  besides  lemon- 
juice. 

Slieeps^  BrainSy  Boasted.  For  want  of  the  means  of 
frying  well,  they  may  be  done  brown  before  the  fire  in 
an  American  oven,  basting  them  with  butter.  As  soon 
as  tliey  are  thoroughly  warm  through,  and  begin  to  show 


MUTTON  AMD  LAMB.  379 

colour,  sprinkle  them  wiih  bread-cmmbs  and  set  them 
under  a  salamander,  A  few  forcemeat  balls  (as  below) 
may  be  roasted  at  the  same  time  with  the  brains,  and  a 
Bttle  good  brown  gravj  poured  over  alL 

Minced  Ccld^MutUm  Balls.  To  jonr  minced  mutton 
add  a  quarter  of  its  weight  of  sausage-meat ;  sea3on  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  minced  sweet  herbs;  add  as  much 
grated  bread-crumbs  and  beaten  egg  as  will  make  the 
whole  hang  well  together.  Mix  thoroughly;  roll  the 
composition  into  balls,  and  either  fiy  them  or  roast  them 
in  an  American  oven.  They  are  useful  for  garnish,  or 
may  be  served  by  themselves  as  a  side-dish,  with  tomato 
sauce. 


380  VEAL. 


xni. 

VEAL. 

Although  the  Calf  is  only  the  nephew  of  the  Ox,  he  is 
a  worthy  sucoessor  to  his  undoes  honours,  and,  in  some 
points  of  oonvenienoe,  is  even  his  superior.  He  has  no 
need  of  travel  to  form  his  character,  quite  moderate 
exercise  being  best  suited  to  the  delicacy  of  his  con- 
stitution. The  Calf,  in  his  amiable  condescension,  lends 
himself  to  so  many  metamorphoses  that,  without  any 
intention  of  giving  ofience,  we  may  call  him  the 
Chameleon  of  the  Kitchen.  Few  animals  present  them- 
selves on  our  tables  under  such  a  variety  of  disguises. 
Large  as  is  the  number  of  those  which  are  to  be  found 
in  the  range  of  Culinary  Literature,  the  brilliant  imagina* 
tion  of  an  accomplished  cook  will  furnish  a  still  more 
lengthy  succession  of  receipts.  It  is  not  merely  the 
Calf  s  person,  properly  so  called,  fix)m  which  we  derive 
the  leading  ornaments  of  our  banquets ;  his  appendages, 
both  ex-temal  and  in-,  supply  the  material  of  excellent 
messes. 

His  Head,  witli  the  skin  on,  plain-boiled,  with  brain 
sauce,  can  be  successfiilly  sent  up  by  a  cook  in  her 
novitiate.  All  that  is  needed  is  to  clean  it  well,  to  steep 
in  cold  water,  to  change  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled, 
after  all  the  scum  has  risen  (see  Mock-Turtle,  p.  147), 


YSAL.  381 

and  to  boil  it  enough^  without  letting  it  fall  to  pieces.  It 
is  a  dish  both  salatary  and  alimentaiy,  whether  hot  for 
dinner  or  cold  for  supper — in  the  latter  case,  garnished 
with  slices  of  tongue.  Under  its  more  elaborate  forms 
(Mock-Turtle  a  la  Tartue,  Fried  and  Hashed),  Calf  s  Head 
is  worthy  to  exercise  the  skill  of  the  possessor  of  the  high- 
est culinary  acquirements.  On  foreign  tables,  theyrat^e, 
or  frill,  or  white  part  of  the  pluck,  appears  in  scores  of 
shapes  unsuspected  by  the  eater ;  it  is  manufactured  into 
cocks'-oombs  and  capon-kidneys ;  it  forms  the  substance 
of  andauiUeUeSf  veal  sausages,  white  puddings,  chicken- 
and-cream*  forcemeat  balls.  The  feet  are  the  foundation 
of  an  infinite  diversity  of  jellies.  The  tails  make  a  soup 
or  a  ragoilt,  which  is  perfect  ox-tail  soup  for  the  use  of 
Toung  Ladies.  The  heart  makes  a  dainty  little  dish  for 
a  tSte-ortSte^  or  a  party  of  three.  The  liver,  once  the 
delight  of  Boyalty  and  Boyalty's  conscience-keeper,*  is 
also  served  whole  abroad,  with  immense  approbation,  as 
follows : 

CcifB  Lioer  Burgess  ^wise^  or  a  la  Bourgeoise 
(French).  Lard  the  upper  side  of  a  calf's  liver  witli 
well-seasoned  slips  of  bacon,  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan, 
with  thin  slices  of  bacon,  trimmings  of  veal,  turnips, 
carrots,  a  dove  of  garlic,  or  two  or  three  shallots,  if  the 
former  is  disliked,  bay-leaves,  cloves,  some  good  broth, 
and  half  a  bottle  of  white  wine  or  good  cider.  Skim  it 
well  as  it  first  heats ;  cover  it  with  thin  slices  of  bacon ; 
shut  down  close  the  lid  of  the  stew-pan,  and  put  burning 
charcoal  on  the  top  of  the  lid,  which  should  be  hollow,  to 

*  George  lY.  and  Lord  Eldon. 


382  VEAL. 

receive  it  Take  care  not  to  let  it  cook  too  fiist.  When 
it  is  enougb,  strain  the  gravy  through  a  collender; 
reduce  it  to  one-half  over  the  fire,  thicken  it  with  a  little 
flour,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  your  liver  at  the 
moment  of  serving. 

Fried  Calf  9  Liver  and  Bacon.  Slice  your  liver 
thin,  your  bacon  the  same.  Fry  your  bacon  first, 
enough,  but  not  dried  up  or  burnt ;  set  it  in  a  hot  dish 
on  your  hot  iron  plate,  to  keep  it  fix)m  cooling.  Then 
fry  your  slices  of  liver.  When  done,  lay  on  a  hot  dish 
a  slice  of  bacon  and  a  slice  of  liver,  lapping  one  over  the 
other  alternately,  till  the  dish  is  fulL 

To  the  gravy  in  your  frying-pan  put  a  few  slices  of 
lemon-peel;  dredge  in  a  little  flour;  moisten  with  a 
table-spoonful  or  so  of  good  hot  stock,  and  half  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  if  liked ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
lemon-juice ;  keep  stirring  with  a  fork  till  all  is  brown 
and  smooth ;  remove  the  lemon-peel,  and  then  pour  hot 
over  yom:  liver  and  bacon.  A  few  forcemeat  balls  may 
be  laid  round  this  dish. 

Broiled  Veal- Cutlets,  Procure  a  few  nice  cutlets 
from  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  veal.  Mix  well 
together  pepper  and  salt,  mixed  spices,  bisouit-raspings, 
and  well-chopped  thyme,  shallots,  and  parsley.  Boll 
your  cutlets  in  this  mixture  one  by  one,  pressing  them 
into  it  on  both  sides,  so  as  to  make  as  much  of  it  as  pos- 
sible stick  to  them.  Then  wrap  them,  first  in  very  thin 
slices  of  bacon,  and  afterwards  in  oiled  or  buttered  paper. 
Secure  the  paper  with  string,  and  broil  the  cutlets,  so 
enveloped,  on  a  gridiron  over  a  fire  that  is  not  too  fierce. 


TEAL.  383 

Make  in  a  sauoepan,  with  batter,  vinegar,  and  tlie 
remainder  of  jour  mixed  dressing,  a  sauce,  to  be  kept 
hot  till  wanted. 

When  the  cutlets  are  thoroughly  broiled,  take  off  the 
paper,  arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  sauce 
over  them. 

Veal^CtUletSj  without  Bone.  Cut  die  fleshy  part  of  a 
leg  or  shoulder  of  veal  into  slices  not  larger  than  the 
palm  of  your  hand,  and  not  more  than  half  an  inch 
thicL  Give  them  a  few  smart  taps  with  the  flat  of 
jour  knife  to  make  them  more  tender.  Dust  them  on 
each  side  with  flour  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Fry 
them  in  butter  very  quickly^  not  putting  them  into  the 
pan  till  the  butter  is  quite  hot.  Arrange  them  on  a  hot 
dish,  lapping  one  over  the  other.  Make,  and  pour  over 
them,  brown  gravy  sauce,  exactly  as  in  the  preceding 
receipt,  only  adding  pickled  mushrooms.  Garnish  with  .' 
forcemeat  balls  and  slices  of  lemon. 

If  you  can  use  up  the  bones  for  soup,  the  meat  can 
be  cut  out  of  the  neck  or  loin,  and  made  into  cutlets  as 
above. 

Veal"  CtUlets  in  CurUpaperSy  or  en  Papillotes  (French). 
Oijt  your  cutlets  rather  thin,  and  lay  them  on  pieces  of 
paper  cut  out  much  in  the  shape  of  a  boy's  kite.  Season 
them  with  pepper,  salt,  parsley  and  shallots  finely 
minced,  and  little  bits  of  butter.  Twist  the  paper  round 
the  cutlet,  without  covering  the  upper  portion  of  the 
bone.  Oil  the  paper  outside  with  good  salad*oil.  Se 
careful  to. grill  your  cutlets  over  a  slow  fire  without  any 
flame,  after  having  laid  a  sheet  of  oiled  paper  over  the 


384  YXAL. 

gridiron.  Serve  them  in  the  paper  which  envelops 
them.  This  dish  requires  considerable  care,  and  a 
charcoal  fire  is  almost  indispensable. 

CcXf^  Hearty  Boiled.  Salt  it  twelve  or  four-and- 
twenty  hours,  then  wash  it  well ;  stuff  with  veal  stufiing; 
boil  well  in  as  little  water  as  will  cover  it,  and  keep  it 
from  touching  the  bottom  of  the  pot ;  serve  with  sauce 
h  la  Paulettey  or  any  other  white  piquant  sauce. 

Calfs  Hearty  Roasted.  Wash  well ;  stuff  with  veal 
stuffing.  While  roasting,  if  you  have  no  cold  roast- 
veal  or  beef  gravy,  baste  well  with  butter.  When 
done,  with  the  gravy  left  in  the  latch-pan  make  a 
brown  sauce  in  the  way  directed  for  Calf  s  Liver  and 
Bacon. 

Veal  Sweetbread  au  Blanc — Served  White  (French). 
Steep  a  couple  of  sweetbreads  all  night  in  cold  water. 
Peel  off  all  their  thin  outside  skin,  and  set  them  on  the 
fire  in  a  stew-pan  of  cold  water.  When  they  are  on  the 
point  of  boiling,  take  them  out,  and  blanch  tliem  in  two 
cold  waters,  and  then  return  them  to  the  stew-pan  in  the 
water  in  which  they  were  previously  scalded. 

Add  to  this  a  couple  of  hearts  of  fine  celeiy,  a  large 
onion,  butter,  salt,  white  pepper,  and  grated  nutm^. 
After  boiling  for  half  an  hour,  take  them  out  and  lay 
them  on  a  dish  on  which  you  have  put  a  large  bit  of 
butter  and  a  couple  of  raw  egg-yolks. 

Now  mix  in  a  cup  a  spoonful  of  flour  with  half  a  pint 
of  milk ;  stir  this  into  the  sweetbread-boilings  to  make 
the  sauce ;  add  to  it  the  juice  of  lemon,  and  pass  it 
through  a  strainer  over  your  sweetbreads. 


VEAL. 


385 


The  lemon  which  has  supplied  the  juice  may  be  cut 
into  slices  to  serve  for  garnish  round  the  dish. 

This  is  a  very  delicate,  easy,  and  not  expensive  mode 
of  serving  sweetbreads. 

Mmced"  Veal  Cakes,  Beat  together  a  pound  of  lean 
minced  veal,  half  a  pound  of  minced  veal  suet,  a  stale 
penny  roll  soaked  in  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  mace,. 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  three  eggs. 
Make  this  up  with  a  little  flour  into  small  flat  cake^^ 
which  you  will  fry  in  butter  to  a  nice  light  brown. 
Stew  them  for  a  while  in  good  beef  stock.  When 
enough,  arrange  them  on  your  dish,  thicken  and  season 
your  gravy,  pour  it  over  boiling  hot,  and  serve. 

These  cakes  are  useful  as  garnishings  or  additions  to 
many  made  dishes.  Their  flavour  may  be  varied  by  the 
addition  of  minced  lemon-peel,  oif  of  sweet  herbs — as 
thyme,  sage,  marjoram,  basil,  chervil,  parsley— or  of  a 
little  chopped  ham. 

Godiveau  (  Veal  Forcemeat) j  A,  Chop  well  together 
a  pound  of  beef-suet  and  half  a  pound  of  lean  veal. 
When  it  begins  to  be  a  little  small,  add  salt,  pepper, 
grated  nutmeg,  and  a  couple  of  raw  eggs.  Continue  to 
chop  a  little  longer ;  then  put  the  whole  into  a  mortar, 
and  pound  it,  after  adding  two  more  eggs,  a  little  cold 
water,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  fine  chopped  parsley. 
Boll  out  your  godiveau  on  a  dresser  or  slab  dusted  with 
flour,  and  mould  it  into  balls  with  the  palms  of  your 
hands.  Poach  them  ten  minutes  in  boiling  water,  and 
dry  them  in  a  sieve  or  strainer. 

Godiveau  (  Veal  Forcemeat)^  B,     Proceed  exactly  as 

c  0 


386  VEAL. 

above,  simply  adding  mixed  spices,  minced  sweet  herbs, 
and  truffles  or  moshrooms.  The  balls  may  be  fried  (in 
plenty  of  hot  fat)  instead  of  being  poached ;  or  they  may 
be  browned  before  the  fire  after  poaching.  All  sorts  of 
godiveaux  are  made  with  the  white  flesh  of  fowls  orgame, 
in  which  case  the  beef-snet  may  be  replaced  by  veal- 
kidney-suet 

This  composition  is  employed  either  as  forcemeat, 
or,  in  the  shape  of  balls  or  quenelles,  as  a  separate  side- 
dish  ;  when,  if  fiied,  they  may  be  served  with  brown 
gravy — ^if  poached,  with  White  Sauce,  Dutch  Sauce, 
Bechamel,  or  Sauce  h  la  Poulette. 

Roast  Veal  requires  little  comment.  Underdone,  it 
is  unsightly,  unpalatable,  and  indigestible ;  overdone,  it 
is  tasteless,  stringy,  and  innutritions.  Lemon-peel  and 
lemon-juice  are  its  most  appropriate  seasoning  and 
garnish.  The  great  fault  of  English  veal  is,  that  it  is 
apt  to  be  killed  too  young;  but  whoever  kills  a  calf 
before  it  is  six  weeks  old  ought  to  be  prosecuted  as  a 
vitulicide.*  Calves  nipped  in  the  bud  at  that  tender 
age  have  nothing  to  yield  but  a  few  bits  of  insipid, 
watery,  flabby  flesh.  At  two  months  and  upwards  they 
begin  to  acquire  the  solidity,  succulence,  whiteness,  fistt, 
rotundity,  and  sapid  deUcacy,  which  constitutes  their 
real  glory.  Without  being  unpatriotic,  we  may  affirm 
that,  as  a  rule,  and  on  the  average,  French  butchers  offer 
better,  because  finer,  veal  for  sale  than  EnglisL 

*  In  the  Doctor*8  young  days  these  poor  little  innocents,  knocked 
on  the  head  after  they  had  seen  the  light  of  day  for  not  more  than  a 
fortnight  or  three  weeks,  nsed  to  be  called  "  Staggering  Bob,"  because 
they  could  not  walk  without  tottering. 


VEAL,  387 

The  most  elegant  Boast  is  the  Loin  with  the  kidney 
in  its  nataral  place.  At  table,  the  carver  may  cut  the 
kidney  and  its  enveloping  fat  into  slices,  may  lay  them 
on  hot  toast  cat  into  squares,  season  them  with  pepper 
or  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon-juice,  and  either  send  them 
round  to  his  guests  forthwith,  or  (especially  if  they  are  a 
little  underdone,  as  they  are  apt  to  be)  may  have  them 
first  set  for  a  few  minutes  under  a  bright-red  salaman- 
der. Veal-kidney  bears  more  cooking  than  any  other 
kidney,  and  is  even  the  better  for  it 

VeaUISdnet/  may  be  Sliced  and  SautM  with  white 
wine,  as  directed  for  beef  and  mutton  kidneys.  Boasted 
whoUj  and  by  itself,  it  makes  a  nice  little  dish  to  set  before 
one  or  two  persons,  if  not  too  often  repeated.  We  have 
already  mentioned  the  excellent  service  which  Cold  VeaU 
Kidney  is  capable  of  rendering  by  filling  an  Omelette. 

The  Legy  or,  as  it  is  called  in  many  parts  of  England, 
the  FUlefp  makes  the  most  substantial  and  imposing 
JRoast  of  veal.  Its  preparation  is  very  simple.  Take 
out  the  thigh-bone ;  fill  up  the  vacancy  with  veal  stuff- 
ing ;  bind  the  joint  so  stuffed  with  string,  to  keep  it 
round  and  nicely  in  shape ;  roast  slowly  at  first,  to  let 
the  heat  penetrate  it  thoroughly ;  towards  the  close  of 
the  roasting,  brown  the  outside  nicely,  taking  care  not 
to  let  it  bum. 

Many  cooks  serve  melted  butter  with  roast  veal,  as 
^eU  as  a  tureen  of  ite  own  gravy. 

Boast  Shoulder  of  Vealj  though  mostly  considered 
inferior  to  the  Leg,  is  not  to  be  despised*  It  even  con- 
tains a  greater  variety  than  the  leg  in  the  quality  of  its 


388  YBAL. 

substance,  there  being  a  small  proportion  of  fat  and 
tendon  mixed  up  with  the  muscle.  Shoulder  of  veal 
should  also  be  stuffed.  Pass  your  knife  between  the 
blade-bone  and  the  meat  on  its  upper  surface.  You  thus 
easily  make  a  sort  jof  pocket,  into  which  pocket  pusli 
yoTur  veal-stuffing.  By  making  the  opening  as  narrow 
as  may  be,  there  will  be  no  need  to  sew  it  up  or  close  it 
with  string.  On  tlie  contrary,  a  little  delicately  browned 
stuffing,  protruding,  will  help  to  garnish  the  joint,  and 
will  show  the  carver  where  to  find  the  forcemeat 

The  Best  End  of  the  j^eck  of  Veal  makes  a  pretty 
little  Roast  for  a  small  party  ;  but  it  is  usually  reserved 
for  cutlets. 

Hashed  Cold  VeaL  Slice  and  neatly  trim  the  roast 
meat  left;  dust  the  slices  on  each  side  with  flour,  pepper, 
and  salt. 

Boil  down  the  bones  into  gravy,  with  lemon-peel 
and  a  blade  of  mace.  When  done,  pass  the  gravy 
through  a  cullender,  and  in  it  let  the  sliced  meat  stew 
gently  for  twenty  minutes;  add  any  cold  forcemeat 
left,  cut  into  dice,  and  let  all  stew  another  ten  minutes  ; 
season  to  taste  with  salt  and  lemon-juice;  and  serve 
garnished  witli  sliced  lemon  and  toasted  bread ;  also 
with  forcemeat  balls,  if  there  was  no  cold  forcemeat 
to  put  into  the  hash. 

Minced  Cold  VeaL  Cut  all  tlie  meat  from  off  the 
bones ;  take  the  best  pieces,  fat  and  lean,  and  chop 
them  fine  on  your  chopping-board. 

Boil  down  the  rest  into  gravy,  with  the  same  season- 
ing as  in  the  preceding  receipt.     Pass  the  gravy  through 


VEAL.  389 

a  cullender ;  return  it  to  your  saucepan ;  thicken  it  with 
a  dust  of  flour ;  put  in  your  minced  cold  meat,  and  let 
it  simmer  till  the  gravy  is  so  reduced  that  the  mince 
is  only  just  moistened,  or  just  not  dry.  Taste,  then^ 
whether  further  seasoning  is  required,  for  the  salt  will 
be  concentrated  by  the  boiling  down.  Serve  garnished 
with  sliced  lemon  and  toasted  bread;  or,  you  may 
surround  your  dish  with  a  wall  of  delicately  mashed 
potatoes,  and  into  the  middle  of  them  pour  your  minced 
veal. 

This  dish,  nicely  prepared,  is  very  useful  for  invalids ; 
it  is  light,  nutritious,  inviting,  and  they  can  partake  of 
it  in  a«  small  a  quantity  as  they  please.  It  may  be  varied 
by  the  addition  of  mushroom  ketchup,  soy,  &c.,  or  by  a 
teaspoonful  or  less  of  curry-powder,  in  which  case  rice  is 
the  proper  accompaniment 

The  gravy  or  sauce  for  Minced  Veal  should  be  so 
concentrated  as  to  form  a  stiff  jeUy  when  cold.  What  is 
left  of  it  may  be  put  into  a  small  basin  or  mould,  as  soon 
as  removed  fix>m  table.  Next  morning,  turned  out  of 
the  mould,  it  will  make  a  Minced-'  Veal  Cheese  for  break- 
fast or  luncheon. 

Boiled  Breast  of  Veal  makes  a  delicate  dish,  which, 
though  insipid  for  strong,  is  often  welcome  to  weakly, 
appetites.  It  enjoys  the  prescriptive  right  of  being  es- 
corted by  the  sweetbread,  also  boiled.  This  being  essen- 
tially a  White  Dish^  some  even  boil  it  in  milk-and-water. 

The  proper  sauce  is  either  Oyster  Sauce,  or  Sauce  h 
la  Potdette. 

Breast  of  Veal  (a  Brown  I)ish)y  may  be  stewed  either 


390  VEAL. 

whole^  or,  better  and  more  conveniently,  in  morsels  of  a 
size  for  helping,  i.  e.  the  brisket  separated  from  the  long 
bones,  and  then  each  divided  between  the  ribs  and  at  the 
joints.  The  brisket  alone  ought  to  make  a  nice  little 
stew;  bat  every  thing  must  depend  upon  the  age  and 
size  of  the  calf. 

When  your  veal  is  divided  into  morsels,  make  a  roux 
with  butter  and  flour,  brown  in  it  some  onions  sliced, 
then  put  in  your  veal,  moving  it  about  to  let  the  outside 
of  each  piece  get  a  little  coloured.  Then  gradually 
moisten  with  good  hot  stock ;  season  with  lemon-peel, 
mace,  pepper,  and  salt  When  the  meat  is  about  half 
cooked,  put  in  a  few  whole  onions,  whole  shallots,  two 
sticks  of  celery ;  turnips,  whole,  halved,  or  quartered,  ac- 
cording to  size ;  young  carrots,  whole  or  large  ones,  cut 
into  lengths ;  a  breakfast-cupful  of  green  pease,  if  to  be 
had;  a  large  sprig  of  parsley,  and  a  small  one  of  mar- 
joram. The  vegetables  must  be  well  covered  with  the 
stock.  When  they  are  tender  and  the  meat  is  done, 
arrange  the  latter  in  the  middle  of  a  large  dish,  serve  the 
vegetables  neatly  round  it,  removing  the  lemon-peel  and 
the  bunch  of  herbs ;  boil  the  gravy  a  minute  or  two,  to 
thicken  if  required,  and  pour  a  sufScient  quantity  over 
the  contents  of  the  dish. 

Knuckle  of  Veal  (divided  across,  sawing  through  the 
bone,  into  three  or  four  pieces)  may  also  be  stewed  in 
exactly  the  same  way,  only  it  will  take  longer  to  cook 
than  the  Breast.  Whatever  is  left  of  either  the  above 
will  be  a  useful  addition  to  the  Soup-kettle. 

Calf  8  Head  a  la  Tortue  or  en  Tortue — Tttrtle-wise^ 


YXAL.  891 

This  is  one  of  the  Fancy  Dishes  which  accomplished 
cooks  vaiy  slighUy,  according  to  the  inspiration  of  their 
own  imaginings,  feeling  bound  to  impress  upon  it  some 
mark  of  their  individual  skiU. 

Boil  a  Calfs  Head,  with  the  skin  on,  exactlj  as 
for  making  Mock-Turtle  Soup.  When  done  (not  too 
much),  remove  the  flesh  from  the  bones,  and  divide  it 
into  convenient-sized  pieces,  each  about  half  or  one-third 
the  size  of  your  hand.  Also  divide  the  tongue  into  pre- 
sentable morsels  to  be  helped  with  a  spoon. 

Make  a  roux  with  flour  and  butter ;  in  this,  brown 
some  dice  of  sweetbread.  Moisten  gradually  with  good 
stock  and  two  or  three  glasses  of  good  Madeira  or  Mar- 
sala. Some  cooks  put  in  brandy  instead ;  but  it  is  not 
the  thing.  In  this  Sauce  warm  up  your  calfs  head, 
adding,  at  the  same  time,  ready-cooked  cocks'-combs, 
button  mushrooms,  forcemeat  balls,  egg-yolk  balls,  peeled 
olives.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  or  cayenne. 
Ton  may  heighten  both  the  flavour  and  the  colour  by  a 
slight  dash  of  tomato  sauce.  On  serving,  you  may  also 
garnish  with  small  ornaments  made  of  puff-paste.  It  is 
customary  with  Paris  cooks  to  increase  the  list  of  these 
incongruities — Heaven  only  knows  why — with  fried 
eggs,  slices  of  fried  bread,  and  boiled  fresh-water  craw- 
fish in  then-  shell. 

The  calfs  head,  when  boiled,  may  also  be  boned  and 
served  whole  a  la  Tortue^  toithout  being  divided  into  por- 
tions ;  the  latter  mode,  however,  allows  greater  freedom 
in  the  application  and  ai*rangement  of  the  decorations. 

Calfs  Heady  Fried.     Boil  as  for  Mock-Turtle  Soup, 


392  YSAL. 

but  take  it  out  before  quite  enougb.     Let  it  get  cold, 
leaving  the  bones  in  their  place. 

When  wanted  to  be  dressed,  cut  it  into  slices  about 
half  an  inch  thick ;  dust  them  on  each  side  with  flour, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Fry  them  to  a  clear,  light  brown  in 
butter.  When  thoroughly  done,  arrange  tliem  in  your 
dish,  and  pour  over  them  a  brown  gravy  made  in  the 
frying-pan,  as  directed  for  Liver  and  Bacon ;  or  a  medley 
ragoiit,  with  Madeira,  olives,  mushrooms,  &c,  as  in  the 
preceding  receipt 

Veal  Pie.  Take  a  neck  of  veal ;  cut  it  up  into  cutlets 
first,  and  then  into  smaller  pieces.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  Invert  a  cupful  of  good  stock  in  the  middle  of 
your  pie-dish,  and  in  it  arrange  your  pieces  of  meat,  in- 
terspersing them  with  dice  of  sweetbread,  bits  of  lemon- 
peel,  and  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  quarters.  When  the 
dish  is  full,  pour  in  a  few  table-spoonfuls  of  good  stock, 
seasoned  to  taste ;  cover  with  the  crust,  and  bake  in  an 
oven  which  is  not  too  fierce. 

Veal  Pie  is  often  made  with  meat  witliout  the  bones ; 
which  is  convenient,  if  to  be  eaten  cold  during  excursions, 
&c.  But  for  a  family  veal  pie,  to  be  eaten  hot  at  home, 
it  is  better  to  leave  the  bones  in,  for  the  sake  of  the 
gelatine  and  marrow  which  they  yield. 

Veal  Fficandeau.  Take  a  handsome  piece  of  the  leg, 
about  three  or  four  inches  in  thickness.  Trim  it  into  an 
oblong  or  oval  shape ;  prick  its  upper  surface  with  thin 
strips  of  bacon.  Put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  bits  of 
meat  trimmed  away  from  it,  a  little  lean  ham  or  bacon, 
carrots,  onions,  bouquet  complete,  whole  pepper,  and 


VEAL.  393 

cloves.  Moisten  all  with  just  enough  stock  to  keep 
them  from  burning  and  sticking  to  the  bottom,  basting 
the  meat  frequently  with  its  gravy. 

Have  ready  a  puree  of  sorrel  or  some  cooked  spinach. 
Spread  a  bed  of  this  over  the  bottom  of  the  dish  in  which 
the  Fricandeau  is  to  be  served.  When  the  veal  is  tho- 
roughly done,  take  it  out  of  the  stew-pan,  and  lay  it  in 
the  middle  of  the  sorrel  or  spinach,  with  the  larded  sur- 
face uppermost 

Strain  the  gravy  left  in  the  stew-pan  (as  the  vege- 
tables, &c.  are  not  to  be  served  with  it,  being  used  merely 
to  give  flavour) ;  return  it  to  the  stew-pan,  and  reduce 
it  by  boiling  as  nearly  to  a  glaze  as  time  will  allow; 
and  pour  or  spread  it  with  a  spoon  over  the  veal. 

Tendrojis  de  Veau  a  la  PoulettCy  Calfs  Tendons^  rather 
a  popular  dish  with  French  cooks,  are  nothing  but  calves* 
feet  divided  into  convenient-sized  pieces,  and  then  treated 
exactly  like  sheep^s  feet  a  la  Poulette.  They  are  nicer, 
however,  egged,  bread-crumbed,  grilled,  and  served  with 
brown  gravy  and  green  pease. 

Blanquette^  White  Fricassee^  of  Veal  or  Lamb.  The 
coarsest  and  most  cartilaginous  parts,  as  the  brisket  or 
the  chump-end  of  the  neck,  are  mostly  used  for  this 
purpose.  Cut  up  the  meat  into  convenient-sized  morsels. 
Make  a  white  roua  with  flour  and  butter,  taking  care 
not  to  let  it  brown.  Moisten  with  water  or  clear  veal 
broth,  such  as  that  which  is  left  after  boiling  a  breast  of 
veal  or  a  calfs  head  dressed  as  for  mock:-turtle.  Put  in 
your  meat,  with  a  few  sliced  white  onions,  a  couple  of 
shallots,  a  turnip  chopped  small,  a  little  of  the  white  part 


394  VEAL. 

of  celeiy  also  chopped,  a  leaf  or  two  of  parsley,  and  a 
sprig  of  thjme.  Season  with  salt,  ground  white  pepper^ 
and  a  blade  of  mace.  Let  these  simmer  over  a  gentle 
fire,  at  such  a  distance  from  it  that  nothing  can  take 
colour  at  the  bottom  of  the  stew-pan.  When  the  meat 
is  quite  tender,  dish  it  with  a  spoon.  Pass  the  sauce 
through  a  cullender,  return  it  to  the  stew-pan,  thicken 
with  egg-yolks,  add  a  dash  of  vinegar  or  lemon-juice, 
and  pour  it  over  the  meat  in  the  dish. 

Blanquette  Sauce  should  be  smooth,  rich,  and  creamj, 
with  enough  both  of  the  acid  and  the  spice  to  relieve  it 
from  insipidity. 

Cold  Roast  Veal  may  be  also  Hashed  as  a  BhnquetUy 
or  While  Fricasseej  taking  care  to  remove  the  brown  skin 
and  outside  parts. 

Veal  Paupiettes.  Paupiettes  are  slices  of  meat,  or 
fillets  of  fish,  intended  to  be  spread  with  forcemeat,  and 
then  either  rolled  up  or  laid  one  over  the  other  like 
sandwiches. 

Cut  slices  of  veal  about  two  inches  broad,  and  at 
least  three  inches  long ;  flatten  and  beat  them  with  your 
cleaver  till  they  are  about  the  thickness  of  a  florin. 
Spread  over  each  slice  any  kind  of  forcemeat  you  prefer 
or  have  ready ;  that  for  Godiveau  (p.  385),  for  instance. 
Then  roll  the  paupiettes ;  wrap  each  one  in  a  thin  slice 
of  bacon,  and  fasten  it  round  with  string.  Boast  them 
before  the  fire,  wrapped  in  oiled  paper.  When  cooked, 
undo  the  string,  arrange  the  paupiettes  in  a  dish,  sprinkle 
bread-crumbs  over  the  bacon,  and  brown  them  in  a  brisk 
oven  or  under  a  salamander. 


TEAL.  395 

Serve  with  brown  gravy,  highly  seasoned.  You  may 
make  paupiettes  with  any  animal  substance  that  will  bear 
the  rolling. 

Veal  Galantine.     Galantine  is*a  sort  of  meat-cheese^ 
or  brawn  (to  be  eaten  cold  at  breakfast,  luncheon,  or 
supper,  as  a  hors  dCceuvre)^  properly  made  of  fowls  or 
turkey ;  but  as  they  are  not  always  in  season,  and  cost 
dear  when  they  are,  veal  is  employed  as  a  substitute  all 
the  year  round,  even  when  turkey-galantine  is  to  be  had 
likewise.     Lamb  is  also  made  into  Galantine,  but  less- 
frequently,  in  exactly  the  same  way.     Galantine  is  sold, 
like  ham  and  tongue,  in  slices  by  all  the  superior  French 
eharciUiera — ^a  word  for  which  we  have  no  exact  equiva- 
lent, as  it  implies  a  much  more  artistic  trade  than  our 
"  pork-butcher." 

Completely  bone  a  shoulder  of  veal.  Make  a  force- 
meat with  a  portion  of  the  flesh,  by  chopping  up  a 
pound  of  veal  together  with  a  pound  of  bacon.  When 
well  minced,  spread  it  an  inch  thick  over  the  veal,  sticking- 
into  it  here  and  there  bits  of  bacon,  of  smoked  and  salted 
tongue,  slices  of  truffle,  to  which  some  add  pistachio  nuts. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg,  and  then 
spread  on  all  the  rest  of  your  forcemeat 

Then  roll  the  shoulder  lengthwise,  pressing  the  flesh 
close  together.     Tie  it  round  with  string ;  cover  it  with 
thin  slices  of  bacon ;  wrap  it  tight  in  a  white  piece  of 
linen-doth ;  tie  it  again  with  string,  to  keep  it  a  hand- 
some shape  while  cooking. 

Then  put  it  in  a  braising-dish  or  covered  ^stew-pan,, 
at  the  bottom  of  which  you  have  laid  slices  of  bacon. 


396  VEAL, 

Around  it  dispose  the  trimmings  and  the  bones  of  the 
shoulder,  a  calfs  foot  ready  boiled  and  split  in  two^  six 
carrots,  eight  or  ten  onions,  one  of  which  is  stuck  witli 
cloves,  four  bay-leaves,*  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a  large 
bunch  of  parsley. 

Cover  these  with  veal  broth  and  a  glass  or  two  of 
white  wine;  boil  well,  covered  with  the  lid,  for  three 
hours,  or  longer,  according  to  its  size.  When  you 
judge  your  shoulder  cooked  enough,  take  it  out ;  press 
it,  to  get  rid  of  superfluous  liquid,  especially  if  you  want 
it  to  keep  a  long  while.  Do  not  remove  its  vn:^pper  until 
it  is  cold. 

Strain  the  boilings  of  the  shoulder;  beat  up  two  or 
three  eggs,  and  add  them  thereto  ;  put  all  in  a  saucepan 
over  a  brisk  fire.  When  it  boils  up,  stir  it  gently,  and 
set  it  on  one  side  to  simmer  half  an  hour;  pass  it  through 
a  sieve  or  a  jelly-bag,  and  let  it  cool.  When  you  arrange 
your  cold  galantine  on  its  dish,  garnish  it  with  spoonfiils 
or  slices  of  this  jelly. 

CalfB  Head^  Haaliedj  White.  Parboil  the  head,  and 
cut  it  and  the  tongue  into  slices.  Then  boil  the  bones 
with  an  anchovy,  a  little  mace,  and  half  a  nutmeg. 
When  all  their  goodness  is  extracted,  let  the  liquor  stand 
to  settle ;  when  settled,  pour  it  off  clear  into  a  stew-pan, 
but  adding  to  it  the  mace  and  the  nutmeg. 

Put  the  sliced  calf's  head  into  this  liquor,  with  a 
glass  of  white  wine,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  it  stew  slowly 
for  about  an  hour.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with 
half  a  pint  of  cream ;  stir  the  mixture  into  the  hash 
gradually,  as  you  would  boiled  custard,  without  allowing 


VEAL.  397 

it  to  boil.  If,  after  that,  the  sauce  is  not  thick  enough 
to  your  liking,  add  to  it  a  piece  of  butter  braided  in 
flour.  Just  as  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  incorporate  witli 
it  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

The  brains  should  have  been  boiled  in  a  cloth.  Braid 
them  with  a  little  grated  bread,  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a 
little  nutmeg,  salt,  and  fine-minced  sage-leaf.  Make 
them  into  little  cakes,  and  fry  them  brown  in  butter. 
F17  forcemeat  also  into  balls  or  cakes,  and  with  them 
and  the  brains  garnish  the  Hash. 


398  PORK. 


XIV. 

PORK. 

« 

The  Hog  is  the  only  animal  which  beats  the  Calf  in  the 
number  of  dishes  it  supplies  to  our  tables.  Both,  there- 
fore, merit  the  highest  consideration.  And,  indeed,  if 
the  Jews  of  old  adored  the  GU)Iden  Calf,  our  Cobbett  and 
his  disciples  all  but  worshiped  the  Pig. 

The  merits  of  the  Hog  are  so  universallj  acknow- 
ledged, his  kitchen  utility  is  so  deeply  felt,  that  it  is 
needless  to  pronounce  his  panegyric  here.  He  is  the 
king  of  unclean  animals,  whose  empire  is  universal,  and 
whose  supremacy  is  undisputed.  Without  the  hog, 
there  is  no  possible  bacon,  and,  consequently,  no  cookery; 
without  him,  no  hams,  no  sausages,  no  chitterlings,  no 
black-puddings.  The  doctors  only  waste  their  breath 
while  preaching  that  his  flesh  is  indigestible,  heavy,  and 
laxative.  People  leave  the  doctors  to  say  their  say, 
who  perhaps  are  not  greatly  vexed  at  heart  that  nobody 
attends  to  their  warnings;  for  the  pig,  as  the  author  of 
indigestions,  is  one  of  their  most  ancient  and  faithful 
allies.  True,  the  Jews  regard  the  Hog  with  horror ; 
but,  though  many  Christians  of  the  present  day  are 
veritable  Jews,  they  do  not  eschew  sausages  the  more 
for  that 

Every  thing  belonging  to  the  Pig  is  good ;  no  part 


POBK.  399 

of  his  honoured  person  is  to  be  rejected.  Cooks  and 
ham -shop -keepers  are  not  the  only  artists  who  are 
indebted  to  Iiim  for  fortune  and  fame.  His  bristles 
were  the  instrument  which  enabled  Baphael  and  others 
to  achieve  their  immortality. 

Before  considering  Hog's  flesh  bit  by  bit,  and  the 
various  ways  of  preparing  it,  it  will  be  well  to  lay  before 
ihe  reader — and  that  seriously — the  general  question  of 
its  wholcsomeness.  For  ages  the  subject  has  been 
wrapped  in  mystery.  Only  within  the  last  few  years 
has  the  discovery  been  made  what  the  danger  is,  where 
it  lies,  and  how  its  effects  are  to  be  averted. 

It  has  long  been  a  well-known  fact  that  Pork  is  not 
always  wholesome  food ;  but  nobody,  as  yet,  was  at  all 
aware  in  what  its  unwholesomeness  consisted.  Without 
going  so  far  back  as  the  Law  of  Moses,  Works  on  Legal 
Medicine  contain  a  certain  number  of  cases,  in  which 
preparations  of  pork  are  suspected  to  have  caused  death, 
which  death  was  attributed  to  an  actual  poisoning.  As 
a  natural  consequence,  a  German  physiologist,  gifted 
with  a  lively  imagination,  coolly  invented  Ham- Poison 
(^Schtnkenffift)y  and  Sausage-Poison  (^Wurstffift).  But 
the  most  expert  chemists,  in  spite  of  both  their  zeal  and 
their  skill,  have  never  been  able  to  find  the  slightest 
trace  of  toxical  matter  in  the  pojrk  they  examined.  It 
was  not  chemical  analysis,  but  the  microscope,  which 
revealed  the  real  nature  of  the  enemy. 

More  than  thirty  years  ago  the  discovery  was  made 
that  the  flesh  of  certain  animals  contained  minute  white 
corpuscules,  just  visible  to  the  naked  eye.     Professor 


400  POBK. 

Owen  demonstrated  that  those  white  corpuscules  con^ 
tained  a  worm  rolled  into  a  spiral,  to  which  he  gave  the 
name  of  Trichina  spiralis^  from  the  Greek  word  for  a 
hair.  When  worms  are  thus  enclosed  in  a  hag,  or 
"  cyst,"  they  are  said  to  be  "  encysted  " — a  term  which 
it  is  desirable  to  bear  in  mind,  because  it  involves  a 
most  important  and  reassuring  fact.  Tliese  worms 
usually  exist  singly  within  a  cyst  between  the  muscular 
bundles  of  the  voluntary  muscles.  Afterwards,  in  England, 
France,  Germany,  and  America,  the  presence  of  these 
encysted  hair-worms  was  ascertained  in  the  muscles  of 
Man^  the  Cat,  the  Crow,  the  Jackdaw,  the  Mole,  and 
the  Pig.  It  was  made  out  that  the  Trichina  was  com- 
municated by  means  of  the  food.  M.  Herbs  found 
the  muscles  of  two  dogs,  which  had  been  fed  upon  parts 
of  a  badger  containing  the  worms,  to  be  loaded  with 
them.  But  as  the  animals  infested  by  encysted  hair- 
worms appeared  to  enjoy  excellent  health,  the  parasites 
were  regarded  as  inoffensive,  and  passed,  in  the  eyes 
of  medical  practitioners,  as  simple  natural  curiosities. 
Whenever  any  mischief  arose  from  eating  pork,  it 
was  the  Ham -poison  and  Sausage -poiscn  which  did 
it 

In  January  1851,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Ham- 
burgh, several  persons  fell  ill  after  eating  ham.  It 
should  be  mentioned,  that  throughout  Gt3rmany  it 
used  to  be  a  common  custom  to  eat  ham  uncooked. 
Before  the  discovery  of  the  hair-worms,  if  you  ordered 
a  plate  of  ham  at  an  hotel,  the  waiter  would  ask 
whether  you  liked  it  cooked  or  raw.     Of  the  persons 


PORE.  401 

SO   taken    ill  near   Hambnrgh,  three    died;    the  rest 
remained  for  a  long  while  in  a  weakly  state. 

Great  was  the  general  consternation.  The  Schinken- 
gift  had  done  its  work.  Judicial  proceedings  were 
instituted.  Tlie  butcher,  who  had  sold  the  meat  below 
ihe  market  price,  was  prosecuted.  Long  afterwards, 
bj  a  careftil  scrutiny  of  the  facts,  M.  Tungel  proved 
that,  in  the  whole  of  this  business,  the  only  guiliy 
parties  were  the  trichinae. 

On  the  12th  of  January  1860,  a  young  woman  of 
twenty  was  taken  into  the  hospital  at  Dresden,  in  one 
of  the  wards  under  the  charge  of  Dr.  Walter.  She  had 
been  ill  about  three  weeks,  and  presented  symptoms 
resembling  those  of  typhoid  fever.  On  the  27th  of  the 
same  month  she  died.  At  the  post-mortem  examina- 
tion of  her  body,  M.  Zeucker  (who  was  then  pursuing 
microscopic  inquiries  into  the  muscular  lesions  pro- 
duced by  typhoid  fever)  found,  not  what  he  expected, 
but,  in  almost  all  the  organs,  an  immense  number  of 
trichinaB  or  hair-worms.  Now,  these  trichinaB,  instead 
of  being  encysted^  each  enveloped  in  its  own  cocoon,  were 
perfectly  free  and  extremely  active.  This  first  observa- 
tion was  followed  by  many  others  of  the  same  kind, 
accompanied  by  symptoms  differing  more  or  less  from 
the  above  case. 

The  alarm  being  given,  a  sufficient  number  of  cases 
were  discovered  to  justify  the  name  of  an  epidemic. 
When  death  ensued,  the  muscles  were  found  in  every 
instance  to  be  infested  with  free  and  active  hair-worms. 
There  was,  therefore,  no  more  doubt  about  the  matter. 

D  D 


402  PORK. 

The  presence  of  triclimse  in  the  organs  is  the  canse  of 
very  serious  disorder.  Now,  it  was  afterwards  known 
iliat  a  trichina  takes  about  two  months  to  reach  the 
encysted  stage,  and  that  the  man  or  the  animal  are 
out  of  danger  if  they  do  not  sink  before  the  enoystment 
of  the  worm.  Hence,  it  became  easy  to  understand 
why,  for  so  long  a  period,  trichinsB  had  been  believed 
to  be  harmless ;  tliey  had  ordy  been  hnown  in  their  encysted 
state  ;  they  had  been  discovered  only  in  patients  who' 
had  been  able  to  resist  their  action.  There  could  be  no 
misconception  for  the  future.  Before  M.  Zeucker's- 
observations  at  Dresden,  chance  had  presented  none 
but  animals  cured  of  the  attacks  of  hair-worms ;  but 
such,  unfortunately,  is  not  the  general  result,  although 
it  is  occasionally. 

In  February  1865,  M.  Langenbeck,  of  Berlin, 
operated  on  a  man  for  a  tumour  on  the  neck.  He 
remarked  in  the  muscles  of  the  neck  a  prodigious- 
quantity  of  encysted  trichinae — the  condition  to  which 
they  arrive  after  a  long  sojourn  in  the  flesh  of  ani- 
mals. 

*^  Have  you  not  been  seriously  ill,"  M.  Langenbeck 
inquired  of  his  patient,  "  some  little  time  ago  ?" 

"  Worse  than  that.  Doctor,"  he  replied ;  "  I  have- 
been  poisoned." 

Being  requested  to  state  the  circumstances,  he  con- 
tinued :  "  I  was  inspecting,  in  company  with  several  of 
my  colleagues,  the  schools  at  Jessen,  near  Mersenbourg. 
There  were  eight  of  us  in  all.    At  breakfast  we  were- 
served  with  ham  and  sausage,  of  which  all  of  us,  except 


POBK.  403 

CTie^  partook.  That  one  felt  no  unpleasant  consequences ; 
the  rest  of  us  were  attacked  by  fever ;  and  out  of  the 
seven  who  ate  the  ham,  four  died.  Suspicion  fell  upon 
the  inn-keeper.  The  authorities  took  the  matter  up ; 
the  meat  was  analysed ;  but  although  nothing  was  dis- 
covered in  it,  every  body  believed  that  the  landlord  of 
the  inn  had  tried  to  poison  us,  and  he  was  obliged  to 
emigrate  to  America." 

Doctor  Langenbeck  smiled  as  he  explained :  ^^  The 
landlord  is  perfectly  innocent  The  hog,  whose  flesh 
you  ate,  was  trichinised.  These  are  the  real  poisoners." 
And  he  showed  him  a  morsel  of  his  own  muscle  full  of 
encysted  trichinae. 

It  is  clear  then,  without  quoting  further  instances, 
that  the  trichina  has  long  ravaged  the  human  frame, 
without  exciting  the  attention  of  medical  men.  Tri- 
chinosis (infection  by  trichinse)  is  nothing  new;  it  is 
merely  the  knowledge  of  the  disease  which,  unfortunately, 
is  of  recent  date.  This  infection  is  communicated  to 
man  by  the  agency  of  certain  meats,  and  especially 
preparations  of  pork.  A  mouthful  of  infected  meat 
suffices  to  cause  the  person  who  swallows  it  to  be 
infested  by  hair-worms. 

Such  being  the  real  facts,  it  is  wise  to  look  them  in 
the  face,  without  needless  alarm,  but  seriously,  as  a 
measure  of  common  prudence ;  and  to  do  so,  it  is 
necessary  to  become  acquainted  with  the  natural  history 
of  the  enemy.  The  transmigrations  and  metamorphoses 
of  parasitic  animals  (of  intestinal  worms,  especially)  are 
80  strange,  extraordinary,  and  often  so  complicated,  that 


404  POBK. 

they  would  defy  belief,  were  they  not  proved  by  actual 
observation. 

Who,  for  instance,  would  guess  that  a  winged  fly 
(the  Astros  equi,  a  species  of  gad-fly)  passes  part  of  its 
existence  inside  the  stomach  of  the  horse,  in  the  shape 
of  a  grub  commonly  ca^xcd  a  "  bot"  ?  Such,  nevertheless, 
is  proved  to  be  the  case.  The  female  fly  deposits  her 
eggs  on  the  hair  clothing  the  knees  and  sides  of  the 
horse,  to  which  they  adhere  by  a  glutinous  fluid.  In 
a  few  days  the  eggs  are  ready  to  be  hatched.  The 
horse,  in  licking  himself,  touches  the  egg.  It  bursts ; 
a  small  worm  escapes  from  it,  which  adheres  to  the 
tongue,  and  is  conveyed  with  the  food  into  the  stomach. 
There  it  clings  to  the  lining  of  the  stomach  by  means  of 
•a  hook  on  either  side  of  its  mouth ;  and  its  hold  is  so 
£rm  and  obstinate,  that  it  must  be  broken  before  it  can 
be  detached.  There  it  remains  aU  winter  long,  feeding 
on  the  mucus  of  the  stomach.  In  spring,  when  the 
time  of  its  transformation  arrives,  it  detaches  itself  of  its 
own  accord,  and  is  got  rid  of  in  the  natural  way.  It 
buries  itself  in  the  ground,  and  becomes  a  chrysalis,  in 
which  state  it  lies  inactive  for  several  weeks;  then, 
bursting  from  its  confinement,  it  assumes  the  form  of  a 
fly,  and  perpetuates  its  species  by  becoming  the  parent 
of  other  bots,  to  be  reared  in  other  horses*  stomachs. 

The  history  of  tape-worms  is  even  more  marvellous. 
The  hair-worm's  biography  is,   happily  for  us,  com- 
paratively simple.      For  our  knowledge  of  its  habits 
and  migrations,  we  are  indebted  to  the  researches  of 
M.  Virchow. 


PORK.  405 

The  Trichina  is  not  an  infusorial  animalcule^  as  has 
been  supposed  by  some,  but  a  perfectly  characterised 
worm,  sometimes  growing  large  enough  to  be  percepti- 
ble by  the  unaided  eye.  At  the  outset,  trichinae,  like 
intestinal  worms,  were  believed  to  be  the  result  of 
spontaneous  generation.  And,  in  fact,  when  such 
numbers  were  found  located  in  the  deepest  organs,  it 
was  natural  to  ask  how  they  could  get  there,  and  the 
simplest  explanation  was  to  suppose  them  to  be  bred  on 
the  spot.  But  observation  has  proved  that  neither  for 
intestinal  worms  nor  for  trichinse  does  spontaneous 
generation  exist.  M.  Yirchow  has  removed  all  doubt 
that  the  trichinse  found  in  the  most  distant  and  deep- 
seated  organs  are  the  offspring  of  other  trichinse  that 
have  been  taken  into  the  stomach. 

After  Virchow,  Messieurs  Luckart,  Turner,  and 
Claus  have  demonstrated  that  the  trichina  which  is 
swallowed  in  meat  is  transformed,  in  the  intestines, 
into  a  different  creature — ^the  intestinal  trichina.  This 
produces  embryos  which  pierce  through  the  lining  of 
the  intestines,  and  so  penetrate  to  the  different  organs 
of  the  body.  If  the  man  or  animal  so  infested  do  not 
die,  after  a  time  they  become  encysted,  when  they  sleep 
in  their  shell  without  undergoing  further  metamorpho- 
sis ;  to  produce  which,  they  must  be  eaten  afresh  hy  same 
other  animal,  Kthey  cannot  escape  by  being  devoured, 
there  they  must  remain  in  quiet.  Cysts  and  worms  have 
been  found  in  a  state  of  fatty  degeneration,  as  if  they 
had  died  of  their  long  imprisonment  in  the  muscle  which 
they  had  once  infested.     As  before  stated,  therefore,  the 


406  POBK. 

trichina's  migrations  are  much  more  simple  and  limited 
than  those  of  other  intestinal  worms,  which  there  is  no 
need  to  follow  here. 

It  suffices  that  an  animal  should  have  been  infected 
by  trichins  for  it  to  be  able  to  propagate  the  infection. 
Figs  especiallj,  which  devour  ahnost  every  thing  they 
find,  are  particularly  subject  to  be  infested  by  triohinse ; 
and  in  every  case  hitherto  recorded,  the  disease  has  been 
consequent  to  the  eating  of  pork.  Herbivorous  animals 
are  free  from  all  euapidon  of  the  kind,  except  under  very 
peculiar  circumstances.  For  instsmce,  a  rabbit  has 
become   infested  by  compelling  it  to  swallow  infested 

meat 

Experiments  made  on  birds  by  Dr.  Cobbold  have 
also  had  a  negative  result ;  and  this  so  far  agrees  with 
the  experience  of  continental  observers,  Professors 
Pagenstecker  and  Fuchs,  who,  though  they  found  that 
the  ingested  muscle  trichince  acquired  sexual  maturity 
within  the  intestinal  canal  of  their  avian  hosts,  yet  never 
found  young  trichina  in  the  muscles  of  the  birds,  nor 
any  evidence  of  an  attempt  on  the  part  of  the  escaped 
embryos  to  effect  a  wandering  or  active  migration  on 
their  own  account  All  kinds  of  poultry,  therefore, 
and  winged  game,  may  be  eaten  without  the  slightest 
apprehension.  Carnivorous  animals,  and  especially 
those  which  subsist  on  a  mixed  diet,  appear  to  be  the 
most  liable  to  entertain  trichinas.  It  is,  however,  as 
stated  above,  possible  to  rear  flesh-worms  in  herbivora ; 
although,  on  account  of  the  expense,  comparatively  few 
experiments  have  been  made  in  this  direction.     It  is 


POBK.  407 

quite  clear  that,  in  their  natural  state,  herbivorous 
animals  can  seldom  have  an  opportunity  of  infesting 
themselves ;  whilst  the  reverse  is  the  case  with  swine, 
carnivorous  animals,  and  ourselves.  Looking  at  the 
subject  in  relation  to  the  public  health,  Dr.  Cobbold 
does  not  hesitate  to  say  that  a  great  deal  of  unnecessary 
fear  has  been  created  in  this  country.  English  swine 
are  almost  entirely,  if  not  absolutely,  free  from  this  so- 
called  disease,  and  not  a  single  case  of  trichinosis  in  the 
limng  human  subject  has  been  diagnosed  in  the  United 
Kingdom.  Some  twenty  or  thirty  cases  have  been  dis- 
covered |>o«^  mortem,  and  it  is  highly  probable  that  most, 
if  not  all,  of  these  individuals  liad  contracted  the  disease 
during  life  by  eating  German  pork  sausages,  or  other 
preparations  of  foreign  meat 

The  intestinal  Trichina  contains  about  one  hundred 
germs ;  and  by  the  side  of  those,  new  ones  are  constantly 
and  incessantly  being  formed.  Now,  the  creature  re- 
mains in  the  intestine  at  least  from  three  to  four  weeks ; 
and,  reckoning  only  two  hundred  embryos  as  the 
produce  of  every  female  trichina  (M.  Grerlach  states 
that  five  hundred  is  the  correct  calculation),  it  is 
evident  that  five  thousand  females  are  capable  of  en- 
gendering a  million  young  ones.  Now,  these  five 
thousand  female  trichinse  can  be  easily  contained  in 
a  single  mouthful  of  meat.  The  danger  to  health  is 
naturally  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  hair-worms 
swallowed,  and  the  symptoms  vary  with  the  region  they 
invade. 

In  the  intestinal  canal,  trichinse  determine  gastric 


408  PORK. 

symptoms,  tjrphoid  fever,  dysenteric  disturbances.  The- 
purging  may  become  so  violent  as  to  carry  all  the 
parasites  away  with  it — a  most  happy  release  I  Other- 
wise, the  worms  are  developed  in  swarms,  and  th& 
disease  breaks  out  in  all  its  violence. 

The  febrile  symptoms  and  the  muscular  irritation 
are  the  consequence  of  the  exodus  of  the  new  gene- 
ration from  the  patient's  intestine  into  his  flesh.  Ac- 
cording to  the  strength  of  his  constitution,  he  will 
either  support  the  attack  or  sink  under  it.  It  is  thus 
that  a  patient's  body  may  provide  board  and  lodging 
for  an  enormous  number  of  trichinae,  without  death 
being  the  result.  The  encysted  worm  is  inactive, 
and  health  returns.  Nevertheless,  it  would  be  wrong 
to  conceal  the  fact  that  there  is  considerable  danger 
whenever  trichinae  are  swallowed  in  certain  quanti- 
ties. We  would  neither  exaggerate  nor  extenuate  the 
truth. 

Persons  interested  in  the  sale  of  bacon,  hams,  and 
other  preparations  of  pork,  have  gone  so  far  as  to  deny 
the  possibility  of  the  infection's  being  communicated  by 
salted  and  smoked  meat  We  can  have  no  interest  in 
wishing  to  injure  any  honest  trade;  but  a  sufficient 
reply  is  afforded  by  the  record  of  the  veritable  epidemics 
which  Germany  of  late  years  has  had  to  chronicle. 
The  pest  has  been  propagated  by  smoked  sausage,, 
ham,  and  minced  pork,  at  Dresden,  Corbach,  Plauen, 
Calbe,  Magdebourg,  Quedlenbourg,  Rugen,  Burgk,. 
Weimar,  Hettstadt.  In  this  last  town,  more  than  a 
hundred  and  fifly  persons  were  taken  ill,  of  whom  seven- 


a 


PORK.  409 

and-twenty  died.     In  more  than  one  town  tlie  disease 
was  introduced  by  one  single  infected  pig. 

A  Hamburg  vessel,  returning  from  Valparaiso  in 
1863,  carried  a  live  pig  on  board.  It  was  killed,  and 
thirty  pounds  of  its  meat  eaten  fresh ;  the  rest  was 
salted.  Several  of  the  crew  (precisely  those  who  had 
eaten  the  pork)  fell  ill.  When  the  ship  sailed  into  port, 
two  men  died,  and  their  bodies  were  found  to  be  infested 
with  free  and  active  trichinae.  M.  Yirchow  found  other 
trichinae  in  a  portion  of  the  salted  meat  How,  then,  is 
it  possible  to  doubt  that  Trichinosis  has  swine's  flesh  for 
its  origin?  A  negative  proof  is,  that  trichinsB  have 
never  been  found  in  the  flesh  of  sheep  or  homed  cattle. 

In  the  present  state  of  science,  no  specific  is  known 
capable  of  driving  trichinosis  out  of  the  human  frame. 
Something  is  wanted  able  to  kill  the  trichinae  while  they 
still  establish  their  quarters  in  the  intestine.  All  sorts 
of  things  have  been  tried,  without  success.  Arsenic, 
copper,  mercnrjr,  phosphoma,  spirit  of  turpentine,  have 
been  vaunted  as  remedies,  without  justification  fi:^m  the 
result.  Picronitrate  of  potash  and  benzine  sometimes 
succeed.  Empirics  have  recommended  every  imagin- 
able specific.  The  truth  is,  that  the  trichina  resists 
extremely  active  agents — chromic  acid,  amongst  the 
rest  Consequently,  neither  brandy  nor  vinegar  are 
preservatives  against  the  disease,  much  less  remedies. 
On  discovering  in  time  that  trichinae  havo  been 
swallowed,  all  that  can  be  done  is  to  administer 
strong  purgatives,  which  will  often  sweep  the  intruders 
out  of  doors. 


410  POBK. 

Bemedial  measures  are,  first,  inspection  of  the  meat, 
wUch  is  troublesome.  Ordinary  worms  or  maggots  are 
visible  by  the  naked  eye ;  in  this  case  we  must  use  a 
lens — an  additional  trouble.  But  the  employment  of  a 
microscope  for  a  few  short  minutes  renders  infection 
almost  impossible.  As  soon  as  the  minute  white  spots, 
•characteristic  of  encysted  trichinae,  are  perceived,  the 
meat  ought  to  be  destroyed,  and  the  seller  warned  of 
the  danger  to  which  he  exposes  his  customers. 

Formerly,  German  hams  were  not  sent  to  market 
imtil  after  six  months'  preparation.  At  the  present  day, 
the  requirements  of  trade  no  longer  admit  of  such  tardy 
proceedings.  Even  in  Westphalia,  a  rapid  mode  of 
smoking  is  adopted,  which  does  not  in  the  least  affect 
the  trichinas.  Even  in  this  case,  to  make  sure  of  safety, 
recourse  must  be  had  to  microscopic  examination.  The 
same  recommendation  is  applicable  to  smoked  sausages, 
black  puddings,  and  the  like. 

A  second  excellent  preventive  measure  presents  it- 
iself,  if  we  could  only  be  certain  that  it  was  efficienih/ 
performed ;  namely,  thorough  cooking.  But  it  is  much 
more  difficult  to  ascertain  whether  meat  is  cooked  to  the 
point  required,  than  to  inspect  it  carefully.  Certain 
sausages,  believed  to  be  perfectly  cooked,  have  been  the 
•cause  of  accidents.  In  1863,  a  sausage  which,  doubtless, 
was  insufficiently  cooked,  made  a  whole  family,  five  in 
number,  ill ;  one  of  whom,  a  little  boy,  died. 

Trichinae,  assuredly,  cannot  bear  the  temperature  of 
boiling  water ;  they  even  die  at  34^  of  Fahrenheit  less 
than  that  temperature,  or  at  the  heat  which  coagulates 


PORE.  411 

albumine ;  but  that  degree  of  heat  reaches  all  the  parts 
of  a  joint  much  more  rarely  than  is  imagined^  even  in  a 
<;hop  laid  over  the  fire  on  a  gridiron.  The  superficial 
portion  is  really  broiled,  but  the  interior  does  not  reach 
the  heat  which  kills  trichinse.  Pork-chops  are  often 
«aten  still  pink  in  the  inside ;  the  same  of  larger  pieces, 
both  roast  and  boiled :  and  yet,  if  only  on  account  of 
the  flavour,  pork  requires  to  be  thoroughly  cooked. 
Boast  pork  may,  therefore,  contain  in  its  centre  legions 
of  trichinse  in  perfect  health.  Mere  cooking,  conse- 
quently, cannot  be  considered  a  sure  and  sufficient 
^arantee. 

Last  year  (1866),  the  matter  became  so  serious,  the 
French  nation  was  suddenly  seized  with  so  intense  a 
trichinophoby,  that  the  government  thought  it  right  to 
send  properly  qualified  persons  into  Glermany,  to  make 
inquiries.  Their  reports  were  reassuring ;  based,  how- 
ever, mainly  on  the  facts  that  infected  pigs,  if  they 
existed  in  France,  were  excessively  rare ;  and  that  tri- 
chinised  pork,  even  when  eaten,  was  less  likely  to  be 
followed  by  unpleasant  consequences  in  France  than  in 
Germany :  because  the  French  do  not,  like  the  Germans, 
indulge  in  the  habit  of  eating  raw  meat ;  also,  because 
they  have  the  custom  of  cooking  all  their  meat  thoroughly. 
But  this  latter  reason  for  confidence  is  much  more  to  be 
depended  on  in  the  case  of  boiled  than  it  is  of  roast  or 
broiled  meats.  The  national  taste  is  fast  acquiring  a 
relish  for  underdone  roasts,  chops,  and  steaks ;  so  much 
so,  that  they  are  picturesquely  spoken  of  by  cooks  and 
waiters  as  eaignant — "  bleeding.  *' 


412  FORE. 

We  will  close  this  unwelcome  topic — for  the  sub- 
stance of  which  we  are  indebted  to  M.  Henri  de  Par- 
ville  and  other  scientific  authorities — ^with  the  observation . 
that  it  could  not  have  been  allowed  to  pass  in  silence. 
Danger  is  not  diminished  bj  ignoring  its  existence.  On 
the  contrary,  duty  compelled  the  Doctor  to  make  the 
history  of  the  Trichina  famish  a  prudential  and  pre- 
cautionary,  if  not  a  pleasant,  page  to  the  present  Com- 
panion to  the  Kitchen.  Fore-warned  is  fore-armed. 
And  when  we  remember  the  mournful  effects  of  the 
Cattle  Plague,  we  may  imagine  the  horror  and  dismay 
that  would  ensue  were  Trichinosis  to  spread  over  the 
land.  And  with  free  trade  in  dead  meat  as  well  as  in 
live  stock,  there  is  no  guarantee  that  it  may  not  appear 
at  any  time.  Happily,  it  is  in  every  way  both  more 
traceable  and  more  repressible,  more  easily  ascertained 
and  more  readily  ^^  stamped  out,"  than  the  disease  which 
has  so  sorely  tried  our  herds.  The  microscope  will 
betray  its  presence,  and  abstinence  from  pork  put  a  stop 
to  its  progress.  There  is  not,  as  in  the  cattle  disease, 
any  mysterious  contagion  through  the  agency  of  the 
atmosphere,  or  otherwise,  but  a  material  and  tangible 
inoculation,  which  may  be  guarded  against  and  destroyed 
beforehand  by  the  application  of  sufficient  heat  in  the 
process  of  cooking. 

To  Cure  Hamsj  A.  If  tlie  weather  permits,  lot  your 
hams,  when  cut  out,  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place  for  a  day 
or  two.  Then  cover  them  with  salt  for  two  days  more. 
Drain  them,  and  for  each  ham  take  one  ounce  of  salt- 
petre, half  a  pound  of  coarse  sugar  or  treacle,  one  ounce 


PORK.  413 

of  juniper-berries,  one  ounce  of  allspice,  and  the  same 
of  ground  black  pepper.  Mix  all  in  a  quart  of  good 
strong  beer ;  boil  it  up,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  hams. 
Turn  them  every  day,  and  baste  them  well  over  with 
the  liquor  for  three  weeks,  more  or  less,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  hams,  and  the  length  of  time  they  are 
intended  to  be  kept  before  cooking.  On  taking  them 
out  of  the  pickle,  dust  them  thickly  all  over  with  bran, 
hang  them  up  to  dry,  and  then  smoke  them  to  the 
degree  approved. 

To  Pickle  a  Haniy  B.  Boil  one  pound  and  a  half  of 
salt,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  in 
su£Scient  water  to  cover  the  ham  completely.  When 
the  pickle  is  cooled,  so  as  to  be  no  more  than  milk- 
warm,  pour  it  over  the  ham,  which  is  to  remain  in  it  a 
fortnight 

Pickle  for  Hamsj  C.  Mix  well  together,  in  a  stone- 
ware pickling-pan,  one  pound  of  coarse  salt,  one  pound 
of  good  brown  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  bay-salt,  one  ounce 
of  saltpetre,  and  one  ounce  of  salt-prunella.  Rub  this 
well  into  the  hams ;  turn  and  rub  them  every  day ;  let 
them  lie  in  the  pickle  a  fortnight,  at  the  end  of  which 
time  pour  over  one  ham  (if  there  is  no  more)  a  pint  and 
a  half  of  hot  ale,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  pickle  a  month 
longer,  turning  it  frequently.  It  will  then  be  fit  either 
to  cook  green,  or  to  send  to  the  smoking.  The  above 
•quantity  of  pickle  is  sufficient  for  one  large  ham. 

Pickle  for  Hamsj  D.  Take  one  pound  of  coarse 
brown  sugar,  one  ounce  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  coarse 
^ay  salt,  and  two  pounds  of  common  salt     Bruise  and 


414  PORK. 

mix  these  salts  well  together^  and  boil  thorn  ten  minuter 
in  a  gallon  of  water,  skimming  well.  When  the  pickle- 
is  quite  cold,  rub  the  ham  well  with  it  all  over,  then  put 
it  in  the  pickle  and  leave  it  liiere,  turning  it  every  daj 
for  three  weeks. 

To  Pickle  Breasts  of  Porky  or  Bacon^  E,  To  two 
pints  of  boiling  water,  put  salt  enough  to  make  a  brine^ 
so  strong  that  it  will  float  an  egg.  Add  one  ounce  eacb 
of  saltpetre  and  salt-prunella,  both  powdered  fine^  one- 
pound  of  coarse  sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  vinegar.  Mix 
them  well  with  the  brine ;  put  in  your  bacon,  and  baste 
it  every  day  for  three  weeks.  Then  let  it  drain,  cover 
it  with  bran,  and  let  it  smoke  for  another  three  weeks. 

To  Pickle  Tongxiesy  F.  Wash  the  tongue  well  from 
any  slime  that  adheres  to  it ;  let  it  drain  ;  then  lay  it  in 
your  salting-dish,  and  over  it  put  one  good  handful  of 
common  salt,  one  ounce  each  of  saltpetre,  salt-prunella,, 
and  bay-salt,  all  well  pounded,  one  handful  of  coarse 
brown  sugar,  and  half  a  teacupful  of  treacle.  Let  it 
lie  a  month  in  the  pickle ;  then  .take  it  out,  and  either 
dry  it  or  smoke  it,  or  boil  it  as  it  is.  Two  tongues  may 
be  conveniently  salted  in  the  same  dish.  The  same 
quantity  of  salt  and  sugar  will  be  made  suiGcient  by 
turning  them  and  basting  them  with  the  pickle  every 
day. 

To  Boil  a  Ham.  In  proportion  as  it  is  dry  and  long 
kept,  steep  it  in  soft  water  for  twelve,  twenty-four,  or 
thirty-six  hours.  K  very  dry,  to  avoid  extracting  too 
much  of  its  flavour,  when  you  take  it  out  of  the  water 
in  which  it  has  been  steeped,  you  may  let  it  lie  on  a 


POBK.  415^ 

dish,  covered  with  a  damp  cloth,  for  a  night  or  longer^ 
to  allow  the  moisture  to  penetrate  it. 

Set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  large  boiler,  covered  with 
plenty  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  be  as  long  in  coming  ta 
the  boiling  point  as  possible.  This  and  the  steeping  is^ 
the  true  secret  of  making  salt  meat  sweU  in  the  cooking. 
Of  coarse,  the  quality  of  the  meat  has  something  to  da 
with  the  matter ;  but  we  take  it  for  granted  that  your 
cook  has  never  to  prepare  any  but  healthy  and  well-fed 
meat  There  is  a  popular  belief  in  many  parts  of  the 
country  that,  if  a  pig  is  killed  during  the  wane  of  the 
moon,  its  flesh  will  shrink  in  the  boiling,  and  con- 
sequently be  hard,  unpalatable,  and  unprofitable ; 
whereas,  if  slaughtered  before  she  has  reached  the  full,, 
it  will  swell  in  the  cooking,  and  be  plump  and  tender. 
The  Doctor  has  not  fully  tested  the  truth  of  the  fact  ^ 
for  all  the  pigs  he  has  fatted  and  killed  into  the  house- 
have,  at  the  instance  of  his  housekeeper,  been  despatched 
while  the  moon  was  still  in  her  crescent  phases.  Their 
salted  flesh  did^  certainly,  swell  in  the  boiling,  with 
exceptions  so  rare,  if  any,  that  he  has  no  recollection  of 
their  occurrence. 

Skim  well  while  boiling  i;p,  and  simmer  gently  for 
an  hour  or  two  afterwards.  If  we  did  not  now  know 
that  pork  is — pork,  we  should  say  simmer  gently  until 
the  end.  As  it  is,  afler  a  couple  of  hours'  simmering^ 
let  the  ham  boil  galloping  for  one  full  hour,  which  will 
drive  the  heat  home  to  its  interior.  That  done  to  your 
satisfaction,  let  it  simmer  again.  The  entire  time  of 
cooking  will  depend  upon  its  size,  requiring  seldom 


416  POBK. 

less  than   four,  or  more  than    seven,  hours  for  ihe 
largest 

When  boiled  enough,  lift  it  tenderly  opt  of  the  boiler, 
laj  it  on  a  provisional  dish  to  drain  and  cool,  peel  off  the 
skin  very  carefully,  so  as  not  to  teai*  the  fat  beneath  it 
While  still  warm,  dust  its  upper  surface  with  raspings 
of  the  crust  of  French  rolls.  When  cold,  shift  it  to  the 
dish  on  which  it  is  to  appear  at  table,  and  garnish  with 
fresh  green  parsley.  Ham,  served  in  slices,  may  be 
garnished  with  the  same,  and  also  with  dice  of  dear 
savoury  jelly  made  of  the  feet,  ears,  skin,  &c  It  is  a 
point  of  honour  to  cut  such  slices  excessively  thin,  in 
imitation  of  the  famous  plates  of  ham  served  at  the 
suppers  at  Yauxhall  Gardens ;  respecting  which,  tradi- 
tion says  that  the  carver  attached  to  tliat  extinct 
establishment  had  attained  such  skill  that,  with  one 
single  ham,  he  could  cover  the  whole  area  of  the 
Gardens. 

Some  cooks  preserve  the  skin  of  the  ham  to  cover 
it  with  while  standing  on  the  store-room  shelf;  but  it 
neither  keeps  off  the  dust  nor  the  flies,  and  it  does 
disturb  the  crust-crumbs  and  other  garnishing.  The 
best  protection  for  a  ham  in  cut  is  either  a  cover  of 
the  finest  wire-gauze,  or  a  clean,  light,  coarse-grained 
napkin  thrown  over  it  while  behind  the  scenes. 

Ham-boilings  are  good  for  nothing.  Throw  them 
out ;  don^t  give  them  to  the  poor. 

Leg  of  Porky  Boiled,  This  had  better  come  from  a 
scaldedy  not  a  bumty  pig,  as  the  skin  is  to  be  eaten. 
Salt  it  for  a  week  or  ten  days  (rubbing  it  with  the  pickle 


PORK.  417 

and  turning  it  every  day)  either  in  common  salt,  or  in 
any  of  the  above  pickles  given  for  hams.  When 
required,  take  it  out,  rinse  it  well  in  cold  spring  water, 
and  let  it  drain.  Boil  it  exactly  in  the  way  directed  for 
hams,  only  for  a  much  shorter  time.  About  three  hours 
from  the  time  of  boiling  up  will  suffice  to  cook  a 
moderate-sized  Leg  of  Pork  thoroughly.  When  once 
the  boiling  point  is  attained,  the  more  slowly  it  can 
be  kept  up,  the  better;  nevertheless,  it  must  be  kept 
up. 

When  done,  place  the  leg  on  a  provisional  dish  to 
peel  off  the  skin,  which  ought  to  be  so  tender  as  not  to 
come  away  entire.  When  peeled,  you  may  spot  the 
surface  of  the  fat  witli  patches  of  ground  allspice  (after 
the  fashion  of  old  English  cook-shops) — an  ornament 
not  impleasing  either  to  the  eye  or  the  palate ;  or  you 
may  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  or  biscuit-raspings  over  its 
surface,  and  then  set  it  under  a  salamander  to  brown 
nicely.  In  either  case,  after  transferring  it  to  the  hot 
dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  sent  to  table,  garnish  with  fresh 
green  sprigs  of  parsley. 

The  skin  frx)m  the  ham  will  make  a  little  Brawn. 
A.  Dust  its  under  surface  (while  hot)  with  ground 
allspice  and  pepper,  and  then  roll  it  up,  and  tie  it  with 
a  string,  to  be  kept  on  till  cold.  B,  Cut  it  into  small 
pieces ;  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  grated  nut- 
meg or  allspice,  and  as  much  of  the  boilings  as  will  cover 
it.  Let  it  simmer  half  an  hour,  and  then  put  it  into  a 
basin  or  mould.  Next  morning  yon  can  turn  it  out  on 
a  small  dish,  and  serve  for  breakfast.      The  feet,  ears^ 

E  £ 


418  POBK. 

taU,  and  otfer  trimmings^  will  make  pork  cheese  by 
exacdy  the  same  treatment 

Boiled  Leg  of  Pork  is  improved  by  being  staffed  with 
parsley.  Chop  the  parsley  as  fine  as  possible,  and  mix 
with  it  a  little  pepper  and  allspice.  Insert  a  sharp- 
pointed  knife  into  the  knuckle-end  of  the  leg,  close  to 
the  bone  ;  let  it  follow  the  bone  for  nearly  its  whole 
length,  so  as  just  not  to  come  out  at  the  other  end.  By 
working  the  knife,  detach  the  flesh  from  the  thigh-bone,, 
so  as  to  Ibrm  a  sort  of  pocket,  into  which  you  wiU  stuff 
your  chopped  parsley  as  firm  as  you  can  ram  it.  The* 
leg  will  then  be  boiled  and  finished  off  as  before.  It 
will  be  mudi  the  better,  both  in  flavour  and  appearance, 
for  this  stuffing  of  parsley,  especially  when  cold ;  and  the 
orifice  made,  allowing  the  boiling  water  to  penetrate  to 
the  central  parts  of  the  leg,  will  tend  to  further  its 
thorough  cooking. 

The  BoUinga  from  Leg  of  Pork  which  has  not  been  long 
salted  make  excellent  Pease  Soup,  especially  if  the  leg  be- 
very  earefully  rinsed  (or  steeped  in  cold  water  a  quarter 
of  an  hour)  beforehand.  They  will  even  help  to  frimish 
Pease  Soup  a  la  minute — ^in  Iiot  haste^  to  he  served  at  the 
same  dinner  with  the  leg  of  pork,  thus  : 

Boil,  vrith  the  leg,  carrots,  turnips,  a  parsnip,  celery, 
onions.  When  quite  tender,  take  them  up,  and  chop 
them  up  together  quite  small  in  a  basin. 

Take  a  packet  of  Ashby's  Prepared  Pea-Flour 
(92  Upper  Thames  Street,  London).  The  directions  on 
the  cover  of  the  packet  are :  "  Well  mix  a  spoonful  with 
oold  water ;  then  pour  it  into  the  soup,  keeping  it  well 


POBK.  419 

stirred,  and  in  a  few  minutes  it  wiU  be  fit  for  table." 
The  Doctor's  womankind  followed  those  directions,  and 
we  were  not  satisfied  with  the  result  The  pea-flour  did 
not  incorporate  well  with  the  broth,  but  sank  as  a 
sediment  to  the  bottom.  By  further  experiment, 
however,  it  was  discovered  that,  by  steeping  the  pea- 
Hour  in  cold  loater  cver^niffhty  it  made  eacellent  emooth 
ami  creamy  soupy  quite  equal  to  soup  prepared  by  the 
longer  and  more  troublesome  method  of  boiling  the 
peas.  The  manufacturer  of  the  Pea-Flour  will  be  glad 
to  know  this,  as  he  can  add  it  to  his  printed  direc- 
tions. 

When,  therefore,  you  are  thinking  of  making  Pease 
Soup  in  a  Hurryy  steep  the  pea-flour  in  water  over- 
night. When  the  soup  is  wanted,  throw  the  steeped 
flour  into  the  pork-boilings,  together  with  the  chopped-up 
vegetables.  Boil  up  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
while.  Put  a  few  toasted-bread  dice  at  the  bottom  of 
your  tureen ;  pour  the  soup  over  it,  and  serve. 

Sage-leaf  powder  should  be  passed  round,  for  those 
who  like  it  to  flavour  their  pea-soup  with. 

Boiled  Pork  should  be  accompanied  by  Pease 
Puddinffy  the  farinaceous  substance  of  which  acts  as  an 
antidote  to  the  fat  of  the  meat,  and  renders  it  more 
digestible. 

A  quart  of  pease,  either  split  or  whole,  will  make  a 
nice-sized  pudding.  White  or  yellow  pease  will  have 
the  more  attractive  appearance;  blue  pease  often  the 
better  flavour. 

Soak  the  pease  all  night  in  the  softest  water  you  can 


420  PORK. 

procure.  Set  them  on  the  fire  (tied  in  a  cloth,  not  too 
tight,  in  order  that  thej  may  swell),  in  cold  water, 
and  boil  them  until  they  are  soft  enough  to  squeeze 
through  a  cullender,  so  as  to  separate  the  inside  of  the 
pea  fix)m  the  shell,  if  any.  Stir  up  thoroughly  with  the 
pea-pulp  so  obtained  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  and  a 
couple  of  eggs.  The  object  of  these  is  mainly  to  make 
the  pudding  hang  together ;  because  boiled  pork  does  not 
require  to  be  accompanied  by  any  thing  richj  but  quite  the 
contrary.  When  the  pudding  is  well  mixed,  put  it  into 
a  cloth  dusted  with  flour,  tie  it  tight,  and  boil  galloping 
for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Pease  pudding  requires  no  sauce,  but,  being  rather 
unfinished  in  its  outside  appearance,  may  be  garnished 
with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Slices  of  cold  pease  pudding  are  very  good  and 
wholesome  to  eat  with  cold  boiled  pork. 

Mem.  For  the  sake  of  variety,  to  try  Ashby's  pea- 
flour  for  the  next  pease  pudding  we  make.  Boiled  pork 
mnst  have  pease  pudding  with  it,  to  supplement  and 
temper  its  quality ;  varying  the  form  and  aspect  of  the 
pudding  will  therefore  be  a  pleasing  task. 

"Why  mustV^  will  ask  some  culinary  sceptic,  who 
doesn't  understand  being  dictated  to.  ^^  Must  is  all  very 
well  to  say ;  but  pease  pudding,  if  not  exactly  vulgar,  is 
a  curious  relic  of  antiquity.     Why  must^  Doctor,  if  you 

please  ?" 

For  good  reasons,  most  respected  of  Cooks  (Pro- 
fessed).    This  very  day,*  I  read  in  that  able  weekly 

♦  February  23,  1867. 


PORK.  421 

journal,    the     Gardeners^    Chronicle    and    Agricultaral 
Gazette^  the  substance  of  the  following  little  lecture : 

Every  vegetable  substance  which  we  use  as  food 
contains  (besides  a  large  quantity  of  water,  and  earthy 
materials  which  would  be  left  in  the  shape  of  ashes  after 
burning)  the  following  proximate  principles : 

L  Nitrogenous  or  flesh-forming  constituents ;  those 
which  aid  in  the  formation  and  restoration  of  muscle ;  and 

IL  Substances  not  containing  nitrogen,  as  starch, 
sugar,  vegetable  fibre.  These  are  fitted  to  support  re- 
spiration or  to  lay  on  fat.* 

Now,  these  principles  exist  in  very  varied  propor- 
tions in  different  kinds  of  plants  and  their  products;  and 
it  will  be  found  that  such  products  are  more  or  less 
valuable  for  different  purposes,  according  as  one  or  other 
of  the  desired  ingredients  prevail. 

Thus,  Barley-meal  will  be  found  to  contain  69  J  per 
cent  of  fiit-forming  elements,  and  potatoes  only  21i  per 
cent  of  the  same.  Barley-meal,  therefore,  compared 
weight  for  weight  with  potatoes,  affords  more  than  three 
times  the  weight  of  fattening  materials. 

Again,  pease  (note  this)  contain  nearly  23J  per  cent 
of  flesh-forming  matter,  while  Barley  affords  but  13, 
Wheat  14,  and  Potatoes  only  2i  per  cent — figures 
which  enable  us  to  estimate  the  differences  which  pre- 
vail in  this  respect ;  whilst  in  the  matter  of  water  we  find 
that  Potatoes  contain  nearly  75 — Shade  of  Cobbett, 
crow  at  that ! — Oats  12,  and  Pease  a  little  over  14  per 
cent  of  this  fluid. 

*  Please  do  ns  the  farour  to  read  again  our  Chapter  I.,  Generaiittett, 


422  FORK. 

Now,  as  the  keeping  up  of  the  muscle  of  an  animal 
on  the  one  hand,  and  duly  balancing  the  fat-forming 
and  respiratory  functions  on  the  other,  are  important  to 
the  development  and  well-being  of  aU  animals,  vficludr- 
ing  the  hiffkest,  it  follows  that,  if  chemical  principles  and 
analysis  are  to  be  depended  upon,  these  will  give  us  at 
least  an  approximate  method  of  estimating  the  relative 
value  of  different  food  materials. 

If  experience  soon  teaches  us  the  value  of  this  guide 
in  purchasing  and  selecting  food  for  the  growth  and 
fattening  of  the  inferior  animals,  is  it  not  an  important 
matter  for  Man  himself,  in  his  own  personal  interest,  to 
consider  the  question,  "  What  is  Food?" 

Now,  from  tables  mostiy  compiled  from  Boussing- 
ault,  it  appears  that  we  can  only  regard  Potatoes  as  food 
in  a  quite  diluted  state,  compared  with  which  Pease  are 
a  highly  concentrated  nutriment.  K,  next,  we  inquire 
into  the  relative  feeding  value  of  meats^  and  find  Pork 
to  be  the  lowest  of  all,  it  will  at  once  acquaint  us 
with  the  cogency  of  marrying  Pease  Pudding  to  Boiled 
Pork. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  are  enabled  to  trace  how  it  is 
that  Potatoes  have  become  popular  at  the  tables  of  the 
rich ;  namely,  because,  mixed  with  a  generous  diet,  they 
are  of  importance  to  aid  in  its  dilution.  Pease,  again, 
unfortunately,  have  almost  disappeared  from  the  tables 
of  the  poor,  as  well  as  of  the  rich.  From  the  latter, 
advisedly  so  (if  they  habitually  eat  much  meat;  which 
all  do  not) ;  as,  in  that  case,  they  induce  flatulence  or 
indigestion:   but  for  the  poor  man  to  discard  them  is 


POBE*  433 

altogether  unwise;  as  his  object  ia,  too  frequently,  not 
how  to  obtain  luxuries,  but  how  to  live. 

The  Beader  will  do  well  to  bear  in  mind  that  it  is 
not  a  mere  speculation,  but  an  ascertained  fiiet,  tiiMi/ve 
ounces  of  Jtesh'/armers  are  required  to  restore  the  daily 
waste  of  the  body.  K  these  five  ounces  be  forthcoming 
in  rations  of  meaty  to  get  them  in  addition  in  the  shape 
of  pease  must  tend  to  bring  about  indigestion ;  and  the 
inconvenience  would  be  felt  the  most  by  those  who  have 
<lone  growing,  and  by  sedentary  persons.  But  if  the 
rest  of  the  food  consumed  by  the  individual  be  innutri- 
tions meat,  as  fat  boiled  pork,  or  vegetables  deficient  in 
flesh-forming  elements,  then  pease  will  render  most  wel- 
come service. 

The  tables  in  the  Food  Department  of  the  Kensington 
Museum  have  been  arranged  upon  the  following  as- 
sumptions : 

In  nutrition,  the  tissues  of  the  body  can  only  be  pro- 
duced by  the  agency  of  flesh-formbbs,  which  are 
already  (as  shown  in  the  chapter  Generalities)  the  same 
in  composition  as  ihefiesh  to  he  formed. 

Different  kinds  of  food  vary  much  in  the  amount  of 
ilesh-formers  they  contain;  some,  as  the  Leguminous 
«eeds  (pease,  beans,  &c.),  being  rich  in  them  [remember 
the  fact  that  the  Chinese  manufacture  cheeses  out  of 
pulse] ;  while  others,  as  potatoes  and  carrots,  are  poor. 

An  adult  labouring  n^^  must  have  five  ounces 
of  flesh-formers  supplied  daily  in  food,  to  restore  the 
waste  of  five  ounces  of  the  organic  parts  of  his  body. 
It  therefore  becomes  highly  important  to  know  uiluU 


424 


PORK. 


quantities    of  each  kind    of  food  lie  must  consume^  to 

« 

supply  the  normal  waste  of  five  ounces ;  and  what  would 
be  the  cost  to  him  of  restoring  the  waste  by  the  different 
kinds  of  food  in  common  use. 

Here  is  a  Table  of  the  present  cost  of  Five  Ounces  of 
Flesh-Formers. 


■ 


L 


Wheat-flonr 
Barley-meal 
Oatmeal .  . 
Maize.  .  . 
Rice  ,  .  . 
Pease .  •  . 
Potatoes .    . 


lb.      OK. 


2 
2 


1 
6 


1  IS 

2  9 


4 
I 


13 
5 


20     13 


Areimge  Cost 


0 
0 
0 
0 

1 

0 
0 


d. 

H 
H 

2 

^ 

7 


The  different  quantities  of  food  given  in  this  Table 
all  contain  the  same  amount  (five  ounces)  of  flesh- 
formers  ;  and  they  must  be  eaten  as  the  day's  supply  to 
enable  the  labourer  to  do  a  day's  work.  Their  relative 
cost  for  restoring  the  daily  waste  of  tissues  is  the  money 
paid  in  purchasing  the  amount  exhibited.  Experience, 
however,  has  taught  man  that  he  should  mix  his  food,  so 
as  to  insure  a  proper  balance  between  the  heat-givers 
and  the  flesh-formers,  and  not  to  depend  upon  one  kind 
of  food  for  the  exclusive  supply  of  either. 

It  follows,  then,  firom  the  above  Table  that  Rice, 
which  is  so  much  resorted  to  in  times  of  scarcity,  is 
the  dearest  of  all  food;  next  to  it  in  deamess,  if  they 
have  to  be  bought,  rank  Maize  and  Potatoes.  When- 
ever, therefore  (as  at  the  present  writing),  Potatoes  are 


FORK*  425 

dear  to  the  towusman  and  nearly  lost  to  the  countr}^ 
cottager,  some  sabstitiite  for  them  must  necessarily  be 
found.  Bread,  of  course,  will  be  had  recourse  to,  to 
make  up  the  deficit ;  but  whenever  Pease  are  relatively 
cheap,  they  will  be  a  substitute  for  Potatoes,  as  the  food 
of  a  people,  whose  value  can  hardly  be  over-estimated. 

The  Pea-nail  has  also  been  driven  further  home,  in 
an  admirable  Paper  on  "The  Physical  Condition  of  the 
Agricultural  Labourer,"  read  by  Mr.  Henry  Cox,  at 
Kingscote,  Gloucestershire.  He  holds  that  that  class  of 
men — and  consequently  every  body  arrived  at  the  age 
of  discretion — should  be  made  acquainted  with  the 
principles  of  the  Chemistry  of  Food.  Not  that  they 
need  be  chemical  manipulators ;  but  that  they  should  be 
made  aware  of  the  great  truths  taught  by  men  of  science, 
who  have  made  this  question  the  study  of  their  lives. 

They  should  know  that,  on  the  same  principle  as  you 
cannot  have  a  coat  from  the  back  of  a  naked  man,  nor 
draw  blood  out  of  a  gate-post,  so  they  cannot  get  the 
right  sort  of  nutriment  from  bodies  which  do  not  contain 
that  nutriment.  They  should  know  that  strong  drinks 
and  tea  act  in  the  same  way  (though  perhaps  more  pleas- 
antly) as  the  whip^that  is,  as  stimulants — and  contain  a 
very  small  portion,  if  any,  of  really  nutritious  matter. 
They  should  know  that  potatoes  and  fat  meat  (though 
very  good  for  fuel,  and  to  keep  up  the  animal  heat  and 
give  food  for  the  respiratory  organs)  give  little  or 
nothing  to  the  muscular  system,  and  consequently  can- 
not support  strength. 

They  know  too  well  already  that  animal  food,  in 


426  PORK. 

sufficient  quantities  to  support  the  muscular  system,  is  out 
of  their  reach ;  but  they  should  also  know  where  to  find  the 
cheapest  and  best  substitutes  for  this  substance-— that  aU 
the  component  parte  of  our  bodies  are  originaUy  derived 
from  the  earth  by  plants,  and  are  rendered  by  plants  in  a 
fit  state  for  the  nutrition  of  our  animal  frame.  Some  of 
these  plants  give  a  large  proportion  of  carbon,  or  &t- 
forming  matter ;  others  give  a  large  portion  of  nitrogen, 
or  flesh-forming  matter. 

Dr.  Buckland  has  shown  that  Peaae  formerly  con- 
stituted an  important  part  of  the  diet  of  the  people  of 
this  country — ^at  a  time,  too,  when  our  fo]:e&ther8  were 
more  hardy  than  ourselves.  Those  leguminous  seeds  are 
undoubtedly  the  cheapest  and  best  means  of  supplying 
nutritious  matter.  Their  value  has  been  known  trom  the 
very  earliest  times;*  and  before  the  introduction  of  the 
potato,  they  formed  the  staple  article  of  food  of  our 
soldiers  and  labourers,  and  were  not  then  banished  £rom 
the  tables  of  the  rich.  Pease  and  other  pulse,  if  eaten  by 
themselves,  will  produce  flatulence;  but  if  eaten^  as  they 
■should  be,  with  potatoes,  fat  meat,  or  other  earbonaceous 
-substances,  such  is  not  the  case. 

An  adult  labourer,  in  full  work,  is  estimated  to  con- 

*  **  Then  said  Daniel  to  Melxar,  Prove  thy  servants,  I  beseech  thee, 
ten  days;  and  let  them  give  us  pulse  to  eat,  and  water  to  drink. 
Then  let  our  countenances  be  looked  upon  before  thee,  and  the 
countenance  of  the  children  that  eat  of  the  portion  of  the  king's  meat: 
and  as  thou  seest,  deal  with  thy  servants.  So  he  consented  to  them  in 
this  matter,  and  proved  them  ten  days.  And  at  the  end  of  ten  days 
their  countenances  appeared  fairer  and  fatter  in  flesh  than  all  the 
children  which  did  eat  the  portion  of  the  king's  meat  Thus  Melzar 
took  away  the  portion  of  their  meat,  and  the  wine  that  they  should 
drink  ;  and  gave  them  pulse"  (^Daniel  i.  11-16)^ 


POBK.  427 

some  about  four  ounces  of  mnscolar  tissne  and  ajbout 
twenfy-three  ounces  of  carbonaceous  matter,  in  the 
various  offices  of  respiration,  perspiration,  oil  for  the 
joints,  &c  [for  Man's  bodilj  frame  is  as  much  a  machine 
— ^though  infinitely  more  perfect — as  a  steam-engine]  ; 
so  that  yon  see  the  system  requires  about  six  times  as 
much  carbon  as  nitrogen.  But  the  fact  that  pulse 
contains  more  than  half  as  much  nitrogenous  as  carbon- 
aceous matter,  shows  that  this  flatulence  (which  is  the 
escape  of  waste  material  from  a  safety-valve)  arises 
merely  from  pulse's  over^nchjiess  in  flesh-formers,  and 
not  /ram  any  injwious  gubstance  in  its  component  parts* 
And  here  again  we  see  why  the  fat  of  animals  should  be 
4K>n8umed  with  pease  and  beans ^  and  not  with  potatoes  or 
white  bread. 

An  agricultural  labourer  one  day  said,  ^^  Bless  you, 
sir,  it  would  be  no  good  to  have  pease  in  our  house ;  for  the 
ohildren  would  eat  them  aU  raw,  if  they  could  get  at  them ; 
and  we  have  no  place  where  we  can  lock  them  up."  But 
the  very  craving  of  children  for  these  things  shows  their 
need  of  them.  Dr.  Lankester  says  that,  to  preserve 
health,  there  should  be  a  certain  quantity  of  raw  food 
eaten  every  day ;  because  most  of  the  mineral  substances, 
so  necessary  to  our  existence,  are  washed  out  or  other- 
wise destroyed  by  the  cook.  Hence  the  nutritive  value 
of  Broths  and  Soups,  which  retain  in  their  mass  every 
thing  that  is  put  into  tliem,  except  the  bones  and  a 
portion  of  water  and  volatile  oils. 

Besides  the  Four  Elements  of  which  all  Organic 
Nature  is  composed — and  there  can  be  no  life,  animal  or 


428  PORE. 

vegetable,  wiihout  them — ^the  human  body  contaiiis  the 
following  inorganic  substances;  and  the  absence  of  either 
one  of  them  endangers  health  and  engenders  disease. 
Taking  the  human  body  to  weigh  eleven  stones,  it  would 
contain : 

lb.    OK.    fl^> 

Phosphate  of  lime,  the  principal  ingredient  of  bone.  5  13  0 

Carbonate  oflime,  also  in  bone         •        .        .        .10  0 

Fluoride  of  calnium,       do 0    3  0 

Chloride  of  sodium 0    5  *376 

Sulphate  of  soda 0     1  *170 

Carbonate  of  soda 0     1  *72 

Phosphate  of  soda 0    0  *4 

Sulphate  of  potash 0    0  '4 

Peroxide  of  iron 0    0  *15 

Chloride  of  potassium 0    0  *12 

Phosphate  of  potash 0    0  '1 

Phosphate  of  magnesia 0    0  *75 

Silica 003 

And  we  must  obtain  these  salts  from  our  daily  bread, 
as  presented  to  us  through  the  medium  of  plants.  Truly, 
therefore — again  to  quote  Dr.  Lankester— does  the 
question  of  food  lie  at  the  foundation  of  all  oUier 
questions.  There  is  no  mind,  no  work,  no  health,  no 
life,  without  food ;  and  just  as  wo  are  fed  defectively  or 
improperly,  so  are  our  frames  developed  in  a  way  un- 
fitted to  secure  that  greatest  of  all  earthly  blessings — a 
sound  mind  in  a  sound  body. 

And  now  let  us  return  to  our  Pigs  and  their  be- 
longings. 

What  we  call  the  Leg  of  Pork  is  really  the  thiffh 
of  the  animaL  Tlie  real  leg-jointj  or  hock  (the  jam^ 
bonneau  of  French  charcutiers)^  of  either  the  fore  or  hind 
quarter,  salted  a  week   exactly  like  the  thigh,  boiled 


PORK.  429 

iiiemy  and  allowed  to  cool  without  cutting  it  up,  makes 
a  delicious  and  convenient  breakfast-disk  French  cooks 
roll  tiieir  jambonneaiiJCy  while  still  hot,  in  grated  biscuit 

The  Face  J  Cheeky  or  C7^ap,  of  small  pigs,  may  also  be 
salted  and  served  in  the  same  way,  but  is  apt  to  be  a 
little  too  fat  for  every  stomach.  The  brains,  and  the 
snout  and  ears,  which  are  trimmed  away,  will  help  to 
make  a  shape  of  pork  cheese.  Large  Pigs'  Faces  are 
mostly  pickled  and  smoked  like  hams. 

Pigs'  Frt/j  or  Hasletj  is  best  Bahed^  or  rather 
Braised^  in  a  slow  oven.  Cut  the  heart  and  the  spleen 
into  slices ;  the  same  of  such  portion  of  the  liver  as 
you  use.  Divide  the  frill  or  sweetbread  into  handsome, 
moderate-sized  pieces,  for  helping  with  a  table-spoon. 
It  is  needless  to  say  that  Pigs'  Fry  must  he  fresh;  it  may 
be  used  the  same  day  on  which  the  pig  is  killed,  by 
throwing  it  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  out  of 
the  animal. 

Take  a  pat^-dish  with  a  close-fitting  cover ;  a  pudding- 
basin,  covered  with  an  old  cracked  plate,  will  answer  the 
purpose  for  a  small  quantity.  At  the  bottom  lay  a  few 
sliced  onions,  and  a  bouquet  of  parsley  and  thyme ;  on 
these  place  a  few  pieces  of  the  frill,  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  lemon-peel ;  then  a  few  more  sliced  onions,  with  the 
slices  of  heart,  liver,  and  spleen,  peppered  and  salted ; 
then  sliced  onions  again,  with  the  remainder  of  the  frill 
at  the  top  of  alL  It  is  desirable  that  the  dish  or  basin 
should  not  be  more  than  three-quarters  frdl  of  the  meat 
and  onions.  Pour  over  all  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them.     Put  on  the  lid,  and  set  the  dish  in  the  oven. 


430  POBK. 

When  thus  cooked.  Pigs'  Fry  allows  a  very  broad 
margin  for  the  time  that  it  may  be  kept  hot  without 
injury.  There  is  no  loss  by  burning  or  drying  up,  and 
it  lends  itself  to  various  ways  of  serving.  It  may  be  sent 
to  table  as  it  is,  in  the  dish,  with  no  other  sauce  than 
its  own  gravy  and  a  little  mustard.  Or  the  Fry  may 
be  taken  out,  laid  on  a  hot  dish,  and  the  gravy  (after 
the  surface-fat  has  been  removed)  thickened  with  a  dust 
of  flour,  and  seasoned  with  tomato  sauce  or  highly  sea- 
soned aromatic  pickle-vinegar,  as  that  from  tarragon 
or  Indian  pickle.  Or,  by  stirring  in  a  table-spoonful  of 
curry-powder,  you  make  an  excellent  Pigs^^Fry  Cwrryy 
thereby  at  the  same  time  assisting  the  digestion  of  a  dish 
naturally  rich  and  heavy  in  itself.  The  heart,  fried,  ]» 
apt  to  be  hard ;  the  spleen,  leathery.  Slowly  stewed  iiu 
the  oven  in  this  way,  they  both  become  tender  and  frill' 
of  gravy.  Other  roots,  as  carrots  and  turnips,  may  be 
mixed  up  with  the  fry  from  the  outset ;  powdered  sage 
is  much  liked  in  the  seasoning.  Mealy  potatoes,  laid 
round  the  dish,  make  the  most  appropriate  garnishing. 

Pigi  Feet  a  la  Sainte  MAiehould.  Tie  up  the  Feet 
with  broad  tape,  to  prevent  their  falling  to  pieces  in 
the  cooking.  Put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  thyme,  bay- 
leaf,  carrots,  onions,  cloves,  chives,  salt,  and  a  glass  of' 
white  wine.  As  they  take  a  long  time  to  do,  they  must 
be  well  covered  with  water  or  broth,  replacing  from 
time  to  time  the  quantity  lost  by  evaporation.  Let  them 
simmer  gently  until  quite  tender,  which  will  not  be  sooner- 
than  four  or  five  hours  after  they  have  begun  to  boil. 
When  thoroughly  done,  let  them  cool  in  their  liquor.. 


POBK.  431 

Untie  them  carefully,  and  let  them  remain  until  next 
day. 

When  wanted,  dip  them  into  oiled  butter,  dip  them 
in  bread-crumbs  which  have  a  little  pepper  mixed  with 
them,  broil  them  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  serve  without 
any  sauce,  unless  a  lemon  to  squeeze  over  them. 

In  short,  things  cooked  a  la  Sainte  MAiehould  (and 
a  great  varieiy  of  animal  food  may  be  so  dressed)  are 
first  boiled,  often  in  court-bouillon,  with  roots  and  aro- 
matic herbs,  and  then  covered  with  bread-crumbs  and 
broiled. 

Popular  preparations  are  Staffed  Pigs^  Feety  Pieds 
Fords y  and  TnffiedPigs^  Feet ;  the  preparation  of  which 
is  the  same,  except  that  the  latter  are  enriched  with 
truffles.  The  former  title  is  a  misnomer,  because  it  is 
the  feet  themselves  which  are  the  stuffing.  They  are 
boiled,  all  the  bones  removed,  surrounded  with  sausage- 
meat,  and  the  whole  wrapped  in  pork-frill  or  in  the  skin 
used  for  containing  sausages.  When  truffled,  the  black 
slices  of  truffle  are  visible  through  this  skin. 

Stuffed  and  Truffled  Pigs'  Feet  are  rarely  made  in 
private  houses,  but  are  bought  at  the  shop  ready  pre- 
pared. They  furnish  a  side-dish  held  in  some  esteem, 
with  the  least  possible  trouble  to  the  cook.  At  the  shop, 
they  are  rolled  in  fine  biscuit-raspings ;  all  she  has  to 
do  is  to  set  them  in  her  oven  (or  in  an  American  oven 
before  the  fire)  for  twenty  or  five-and-twenty  minutes. 
One  foot  to  every  two  guests  is  a  liberal  allowance. 

As  Truffled  Pigs'  Feet  will  bear  a  day  or  two's  tra- 
velling in  cold  weather^  an  easy  way  of  having  them  in 


432  POBK« 

winter  (their  real  season)  is  to  procure  them  from  any  of 
the  seaport  towns  on  the  north  coast  of  France — Dieppe, 
Boulogne,  Calais,  Dunkirk — which  have  frequent  and 
speedy  communication  with  England — and  in  all  of 
which  there  are  excellent  clvarcutiers.  The  price,  there, 
of  a  Truffled  Pig's  Foot  varies  from  a  shilling  to  fifteen- 
pence. 

Roast  Leg  ofPork^  like  Boiled,  must  have  been  scalded. 
The  skin  is  then  scored  (without  cutting  into  the  fat 
beneath  it)  to  form  the  ^^  crackle."  In  roasting,  this 
requires  to  be  protected  by  oiled  paper,  if  the  fire  is  very 
fierce,  to  be  removed  towards  the  end  of  the  process,  in 
order  that  the  crackle  may  be  crisp  and  nicely  browned* 
It  therefore  requires  considerable  attention  all  the  while 
it  is  roasting. 

Boast  Leg  of  Fork  is  best  accompanied  by  Mashed 
Potatoes  and  Apple  Sauce  ;  for  which  latter,  peel,  quar- 
ter, and  core  your  apples ;  cut  them  into  small  pieces ; 
put  them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  tumbler  of  cider  or  (if 
you  have  none)  water,  the  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
three  or  four  cloves.  Let  boil  till  the  apple  is  reduced 
quite  to  a  pulp.  Take  out  the  lemon-peel,  add  thejuice 
of  a  lemon,  mix  and  mash  all  thorouglily  together,  and 
serve  very  hot  in  a  small  vegetable-dish  or  sauce-tureen. 

Boast  Leg  of  Pork  may  be  stufied  with  sage  and 
onions  in  the  same  way  as  with  parsley.  Chop  the 
onions  and  sage-leaves  finely  together ;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  allspice,  and  ram  them  into  the  hole  made  in 
the  pork  to  receive  them. 

The  Loin  and  the  Sparerib  make  very  nice  roasts. 


PORK.  433 

The  lioast  BladAone  (from  the  shoulder)  of  a  large 
pig  is  also  a  pretty  litUe  dish.  When  Apple  Sauce  is 
to  be  eaten  with  either  of  these,  they  may  be  basted  with 
cider  during  the  roasting ;  and,  just  before  serving,  their 
upper  sur&ce  may  be  sprinkled  with  powdered  sage- 
leaf. 

Perk  and  Apple  Pie.  Procure  a  sufficiency  of  pork- 
chops,  with  as  much  of  the  fat  removed  as  possible.  Cut 
them  each  into  three  or  four  pieces,  leaving  the  bone 
attached  to  the  meat  Roll  them  in  flour,  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  allspice. 

Peel,  quarter,  core,  and  slice  apples,  in  quantity 
(bulk)  about  half  that  of  the  pork. 

Invert  a  cup  of  cider  (or  stock)  at  the  bottom  of 
your  pie-dish.  At  the  bottom  put  a  layer  of  pork,  then 
of  apples,  and  so  on,  finishing  wiili  sliced  apples  at  the 
top.  Pour  in  a  small  cupful  of  stock  or  cider.  Cover 
with  a  good  solid  crust,  not  too  rich  of  butter  or  other 
fat;  and  bake  thoroughly  in  an  oven  that  is  not  too 
quick. 

This  old-fashioned  dish  is  palatable  and  wholesome, 
and  may  be  partaken  of  fearlessly  by  those  who  are 
afraid  of  pork  in  most  of  its  other  shapes. 

Pork  Piey  Coldj  for  Excurstone.  Take  three  parts 
(in  weight)  of  lean  sparerib  or  loin  of  pork,  and  one  of 
neck  of  veal.  Cut  all  the  meat  of  both  off  the  bones, 
divide  it  into  dice,  and  mix  it  together,  seasoning  well 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  allspice. 

Chop  up  the  bones ;  boil  them  together  with  a  few 
sweet  herbs  till  all  the  goodness  is  out  of  them ;  strain 

FF 


434  POSK. 

off  the  broth,  and  reduoe  it  by  boiling  if  too  much  in 
quantity. 

If  the  pie  is  to  appear  or  travel  in  its  dish,  there  is 
no  need  to  put  an  under  crust,  unless  you  like  it  If 
you  do  like  it,  or  want  its  services,  butter  the  inside  of 
your  dish,  and  line  it  with  the  side  and  bottom  crusts. 
On  these  lay  a  few  very  thin  slices  of  ham ;  then  put  in 
your  chopped  meat,  interspersing  it  at  pleasure  with 
hard  eggs  quartered,  slices  of  truffle,  button  mushrooms, 
or  small  forcemeat  balls.  Pour  in  enough  of  the  reduced 
bone-stock  to  moisten,  but  not  to  soak,  the  meat ;  put 
on  the  top  crust,  and  bake  slowly  and  thoroughly. 

Next  day,  when  quite  cold,  the  pie  in  its  crust  may 
be  taken  out  of  its  dish. 

Roast  Suchmg-Pig  is  most  conveniently  Baked; 
there  is  no  danger,  then,  of  its  felling  to  pieces.  The 
proper  preparation  of  Sucking-Pig  is  so  completely  a 
professional  affair,  that  it  is  almost  always  purchased 
ready  for  cooking  in  every  thing  except  the  stuffing. 

Many  people  avert  their  eyes  from  the  sight  of  suck* 
ing-pigs  lying  in  a  shop,  because  they  remind  them  of 
the  Massacre  of  Innocents.  May  be  so;  but  philosophers 
will  say.  First,  that  such  massacres  must  take  place ; 
because  the  returns  of  the  pig  population  prove  that,  if 
we  did  not  eat  iheni^  they  would  eat  us*  Secondly^  that 
as  the  massacre  luxs  taken  place,  it  is  the  part  of  a  wise 
'  man  to  profit  by  it  The  thing  being  done,  it's  of  no 
use  crying  over  spilt  milk.  And,  in  fact,  the  presence 
of  a  sucking-pig  at  table  converts  an  ordinary  dinner 
into  a  feast 


PORE.  435 

Sacking-Pig  is  saaeed  and  staffed  on  two  opposite 
principles :  the  sweet  principle,  with  breiBid-crambs  and 
raisins  or  pranes ;  and  the  savonry  principle.  We  in- 
cline to  the  latter.  It  may  be  considerably  varied ;  bat 
take  this,  which  is  classical :  chop  up  his  liver  (previously 
boiled)  with  a  little  beef-suet,  bread-crumbs,  lemon-peel, 
truffles  or  mushrooms,  sage,  chives,  capers,  the  flesh  of 
an  anchovy ;  season  with  salt  and  Jamaica  pepper,  and 
bind  all  together  with  a  beat-up  egg.  When  your  young 
friend  has  got  his  beUy  full  of  this,  stitch  it  up  with 
needle  and  thread,  lay  him  in  a  dish  in  the  pleasing 
posture  of  waking  repose,  smear  him  all  over  with 
the  freshest  of  butter,  set  him  in  your  oven  (or 
confine  him  in  your  cradle-spit),  and  watch  him  as 
oarefully  as  a  boarding-schoolmistress  does  an  heiress 
pupil. 

The  moment  ho  is  on  the  table,  brown  and  crisp,  cut 
off  his  head.  Unless  that  is  done  forthwith,  the  learned 
say,  his  crackle  will  turn  flabby  and  good  for  nothing ; 
in  which  case,  better  had  it  been  for  him  never  to  have 
left  his  mother's  teat  The  rest  of  the  dissection  may 
be  performed  at  leisure — ^all  down  the  back,  and  into 
quarters,  affording  the  choice  of  loin,  shoulder,  or  leg : 
all  of  which  require  high  seasoning,  being  naturally 
insipid,  oily,  gelatinous,  and  diflicult  of  digestion — ^to 
be  abstained  from,  indeed,  altogether  by  sedentary  and 
literary  ladies  and  gentlemen.  It  is  only  the  robustest 
of  stomachs  which  can  effectually  dispose  of  sucking- 
pig  ;  but  although  the  viscous  quality  of  its  substance 
resists  the  action  of  the  gastric  juice,  and  is  ever  apt  to 


436  PORE. 

cause  relaxation,  we  will  not  take  u])on  ourselves  the 
responsibility  of  prohibiting  it  utterly. 

Plum  Saucsy  for  Sucking-Pig.  Take  out  the  stones 
from  a  couple  of  ounces  of  raisins ;  chop  them,  but  not 
too  small ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  tumbler  of 
cold  water,  a  glass  of  wine  (white  or  red),  and  a  little 
grated  nutmeg.  When  this  boils,  pour  it  over  a  teacup- 
ful  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  stirring  till  the  raisins  are 
evenly  mixed  with  them ;  and  taking  the  same  precautions 
as  with  bread  sauce  not  to  have  the  mixture  too  thick. 

Quarter  Pork  (u  e.  the  quarters  of  a  pig  weighing 
from  five-and-twenty  to  thirty  pounds,  and  cooked  entire) 
combines  the  tenderness  of  infancy  with  the  pleasing 
elasticity  of  youth.  The  hind  quarter,  crackled,  makes 
a  delicious  roast  from  six  to  eight  pounds  in  weight.  The 
fore  quarter,  salted  for  a  week,  may  be  divided  into  two 
most  delicate  boils :  the  very  thing  to  accompany  rabbit, 
boiled  fowl,  or  other  white  meat  that  requires  to  be  assisted 
by  the  smoothness  of  fat  and  the  savouriness  of  salt. 

Pork-Chops,  Select  cutlets  (cotelettes,  little  ribs)  of 
the  sparerib  or  loin,  with  as  little  fat  about  them  as  may 
be.  Dust  on  both  sides  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  broil, 
if  you  can ;  if  not,  fry.  They  may  also  be  egged  and 
bread-crumbed.  When  done,  arrange  them  round  your 
dish ;  and  in  the  centre  put  either  apple  sauce,  or  puree 
of  tomatoes,  or  mashed  sorrel,  or  spinach,  or  chopped 
cabbage.  Stewed  red  cabbage  (which  see)  makes  a 
nice  accompaniment  to  put  in  the  middle  of  a  dish  of 
Pork-Chops. 

There  is  scarcely  any  better  relish  and  corrective  to 


POEK.  437 

go  with  Pork-Chops  than  Tomato  Sauce,  It  naturallj 
combines  with,  and  is  improved  by,  any  gravy  that  may 
run  from  the  chops ;  and  its  purely  vegetable  substance 
neutralises  the  effects  of  animal  fat 

Tomato  sauce  may  be  made  from  a  pur^e  of  home- 
grown fruit ;  but  as  their  season  in  England  is  of  but 
short  duration  (the  close  of  summer),  and  they  are  often 
wanted  for  otlier  purposes  (to  serve  as  a  dish  of  Veffe- 
tabley  which  see),  the  cook  must  put  her  main  depend- 
ence on  Tomato  Sauce  purchased  in  bottles.  This  is 
best  obtained  from  France,  for  the  same  reason  that  it 
is  cheaper  to  import  oranges  from  the  Azores  than  to 
grow  them  in  the  British  Isles.  The  excellent  Tomato 
sauce  which  is  there  prepared  might  be  sold  in  London 
in  ninepenny  and  shilling  bottles ;  the  former  serving 
well  for  twice,  the  latter  for  three  times,  sauce-making. 

Take  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  stock  or 
good  broth  at  the  bottom.  Open  the  bottle  of  sauce, 
with  care  that  none  of  the  wax  with  which  it  is  sealed 
fall  into  its  contents.  Take  out,  with  the  handle  of  a 
silver  spoon  or  an  ivory  paper-knife,  the  quantity  of 
sauce  required;  put  it  in  the  saucepan,  set  it  on  the 
fire,  and  dilute  it  with  stock  to  the  thickness  required 
(that  of  a  thin  pur^e),  stirring  to-  prevent  burning,  and 
seasoning  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  if  approved. 
When  hot,  pour  it  between  your  chops,  or  serve  sepa- 
mtely  in  a  sauce-boat;  in  which  latter  case,  the  chops  may 
have  some  other  vegetable  (as  chopped  cabbage  or  mashed 
sorrel)  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  which  will  afford  the 
choice  of  a  variety  of  sauce-flavours. 


438  roBK. 

As  soon  as  jon  bave  taken  from  the  bottle  what  sauce 
jou  want,  replace  the  cork,  pressing  it  firmlj  in.  A 
bottle  of  Tomato  Sauce,  once  opened,  will  not  keep  long, 
bot  should  be  consumed  as  speedily  as  convenient,  the 
admission  of  air  eausing  it  to  mould  and  ferment  This 
is  another  reason  for  bujing  rather  than  making  it. 
Home-made  tomato  sauce  will  seldom  keep.  Professional 
manufacturers  have  the  means  of  hermetically  sealing- 
their  bottles  (and  experienced  workmen  to  perform  the 
process),  which  cannot  be  expected  to  be  at  the  command 
of  private  families.  In  the  South  of  Europe,  tomatoes 
are  grown  in  the  open  fields,  and  brought  to  market  by 
eart-loads.  They  are  largely  used  as  a  vegetable,  and 
for  soups.  A  bottle  of  Tomato  Sauce,  in  good  veal  stocky 
with  a  few  additions  at  the  cook's  discretion,  will  make 
a  tureen  of  excellent  Tomato  Soup* 


POULTBT  AND  OAME^  439 


XV. 

POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

^^  I  AM  a  great  partisan  of  seoondarjr  causes^  and  I 
firmly  believe  that  the  grand  order  of  QallinacecB  was 
created  solely  for  the  purpose  of  supplying  our  larders 
and  enriching  our  banquets. 

'^  In  fact,  from  the  quail  up  to  the  turkey-cock, 
whereyer  we  meet  with  an  individual  of  this  numerous 
family,  we  are  sure  to  find  a  light  and  savoury  aliment, 
equally  suitable  to  the  convalescent*  and  to  persons 
enjoying  the  robustest  health* 

"For  who  of  us,  condemned  by  the  Faculiy  to 
the  meagre  cheer  of  the  patriarchs  of  the  desert,  has 
not  smiled  on  the  chicken's  wing,  nicely  cut,  which 
announced  that  we  were  at  last  restored  to  social 
life  ? 

"And,  not  content  with  the  qualities  which  Nature 
had  conferred  on  the  gallinaceous  tribes,  we  have 
contrived  to  exaggerate  them  by  art,  and,  on  the 
pretext  of  improving  them,  have  made  them  sufier 
martyrdom.  They  are  kept  in  solitude,  plunged  in 
darkness,  compelled  to  eat,  and  so  brought  to  a  state 
oi  embon'pcint^  which  was  not  their  original  destiny. 

"True,  this  ultra-natural  fat  is  also  delicious;  and 
it  is  only  by  means  of  these  wicked  practices  that  the 


440  POULTRY  AKD  GAME. 

patients   acquire  the    delicacy  and    succulence  which 
make  them  the  delight  of  the  very  best  tables. 

^^  So  ameliorated,  the  fowl  is  to  the  cook  what  the 
canvas  is  to  the  painter  and  Fortunatus's  hat  to  the 
mountebank.  He  serves  it  up  to  us  boiled,  roasted, 
fried,  hot  or  cold,  whole  or  in  portions,  with  sauce  or 
without,  boned,  skinned,  stuffed, — and  always  with  equal 
and  invariable  success." — Brillat  Savarin. 

Fatted  fowls  are  good ;  but  too-fatted  are  not  good 
— at  least,  in  the  Doctor's  estimation.  He  recom- 
mends to  those  who  will  listen  to  him,  young  birds  in 
good  plight,  fix)m  nine  to  twelve  months  old,  taken 
from  their  usual  run,  and  shut  up  for  four  or  five  days, 
on  a  diet  of  barley-meal  and  water, .  with  a  hearted 
cabbage  or  lettuce  to  pick  by  way  of  pastime,  just  to 
cleanse  them, — for  cocks  and  hens  are  very  foul  feeders. 
It  is  taken  for  granted  tiiey  have  been  highly  fed  ever 
since  the  day  they  jumped  out  of  the  shell. 

There  has  been  a  tendency  of  late  amongst  breeders 
to  neglect  the  quality  of  the  Jlesh  of  poultry.  The 
English  shows,  exhibiting  live  birds  almost  exclusively, 
have  encouraged  mainly  beauty  of  feather,  purity  of 
breed,  lofly  stature,  exaggerated  weight;  while  the 
French  "  Concours,"  or  Competitions  of  Fat  Poultry, 
have  produced  astounding  specimens  of  weight  and 
plumpness,  but  which,  to  speak  the  truth,  threaten  to 
ruin  Poultry  by  monstrification. 

Cook  one  of  these  frightful  fowls,  never  mmd 
whether  it  has  been  crammed  at  home  or  abroad, 
and  what   do  you   get?     A  mass  of  heterogeneous 


POULTRT  AND  GAME.  441 

flesh,  half  of  which  falls  one  way,  the  other  half  the 
other.  The  white,  as  compact  and  shining  as  ivory, 
slips  away  from  the  skin,  which  has  been  fed  by  a 
distinct  supply  of  nutriment  They  are  separated  by 
a  viscous,  gluey  stratum,  which  possesses  neither  the 
savour  of  fat,  nor  the  delicacy  of  oil,  nor  the  usefulness 
of  cart-grease. 

The  monstrification  of  fowls  can  only  be  effected  by 
turning  their  nutritive  powers  in  a  wrong  direction. 
The  alimentary  substances  which  enter  their  economy, 
in  order  to  be  equally  distributed  amongst  all  their 
organs  and  all  their  tissues,  ought  to  bring  to  each  one 
of  those  organs  the  means  of  repairing  whatever  has 
been  expended.  But  their  motionless  condition,  com- 
bined with  the  abuse  of  &ttening  food,  deposits  in  the 
cellular  tissue  which  lies  beneath  the  skin  the  whole 
excess  of  this  unnatural  nutrition,  forming  masses  of 
unhealthy  and  detestable  fat. 

Every  fowl  whose  skin  does  not  adhere  to  its  flesh 
is  a  fowl  to  be  left,  undisputed,  to  the  numerous  inno- 
cent admirers  who  are  taken  by  its  size  and  weight. 
As  poultry,  its  true  merits  have  been  killed  by  kindness; 
its  ^teX;™  and  guardians  did  not  know  when  to  stop. 
The  wise  provider  will  prefer  a  fowl  with  less  loose  fat 
and  firmer  flesh. 

Fowls,  after  plucking,  require  to  be  singed,  to 
remove  any  hairs  or  down  that  may  be  left  on  their 
skin;  in  doing  which,  care  must  be  taken  neither  to 
smoke  nor  bum  them.  The  operation  may  be  success- 
fully performed  by  holding  the  fowl  in  one  hind,  and 


442  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

a  wisp  of  lighted  paper  in  the  other ;  but  the  sorest 
waj  of  all  is  over  a  charooal^fire,  allowing  the  bird 
almost  to  lie  on  the  embers  for  an  instant. 

Gkune  may  be  kept,  some  of  it  (as  old  pheasants  and 
venison)  mustj  for  a  considerable  time;  but  domestic 
poultry,  after  hanging  in  the  meat-safe  beyond  a  certain 
date,  is  neither  agreeable  nor  wholesome.  Young  fowls 
do  not  require  any  long  delay  before  cooking  to  make 
them  tender ;  old  ones  must  be  made  tender  by  long* 
continued  boiling  or  stewing.  Consequently,  there  are 
few  things  of  which  fhe  time  of  cooking  varies  so  much 
as  poultry  and  game.  A  spring 'thicken  will  be  done 
enough  in  half  or  three-quarters  of  an  hour ;  an  old 
cock  or  hen  will  take  five  or  six  hours'  boiling  before 
it  becomes  eatable.  The  case  is  nearly  the  same  with 
leverets  and  hares,  young  and  old  rabbits,  &c. ;  which 
shows  how  difficult  it  is  to  give,  in  a  book,  the  time 
necessary  to  cook  this  class  of  dishes. 

Boiled  Fowl  French  cooks  rarely  boil  any  but 
old  cocks  and  hens,  reserving  for  roasting  all  ihat  are 
roastable.  The  English  are  wise  in  making  a  more 
frequent  use  of  this  delicate  and  digestible  mode,  of 
dressing,  so  suitable  for  stomachs  that  are  not  robust 

When  the  fowl  is  trussed,  put  it  on  in  plenty  of  cold 
water.  Some  cooks  boil  fowls  in  a  doth  to  keep  them 
white ;  but  one  is  apt  to  fancy  that  the  fowl  or  the  broth 
tastes  of  the  doth.  They  are  best  kept  clear  in  the  skin 
by  careful  skimming.  They  may  be  tied  round  with 
tape  to  assist  in  taking  them  up.  If  fashion  do  not 
allow  the  liver  and  gizzard  to  be  attached  to  the  wing  of 


FOULTBT  AND  GAME.  443 

a  boiled  fowl,  and  if  the  former  be  not  wanted  for  sauce, 
both  may  be  put  inside  the  fowl,  and  boiled  with  it 
Fowls  of  white-feathered  breeds  are  mostly  selected  for 
boiling ;  but,  in  truth,  all  boiled  fowls  are  best  served 
masked,  as  the  term  is,  either  with  a  little  white  sauce, 
plain  melted  butter,  or  parsley  and  butter,  which  will 
conceal  any  of  the  little  accidents  to  the  skin  which  will 
happen  in  the  best-regulated  kitchens. 

Oyster  sauce  with  boiled  fowl  is  orthodox  and  ex* 
cellent.  Parsley  and  butter.  Bechamel,  and  Sauce  a  la 
PcuUtUy  or  white  mushroom  sauce,  go  well  with  it. 
Plain  melted  butter  is  too  insipid,  while  liver  sauce  and 
piquante,  or  brown  mushroom  sauce,  are  more  appro- 
priate with  roast  than  with  boiled  fowls. 

Partridges,  Bailed  (trussed  as  if  for  roasting)  in  a» 
little  water  as  will  cover  them,  and  accompanied  by 
either  bread  or  onion  sauce,  or  both,  make  an  excellent 
supper-dish,  as  well  as  a  wholesome  and  inviting  ^^  light 
solid"  to  set  before  a  convalescent.  It  is  quite  a 
mistake  to  suppose  that  partridges  so  dressed  become 
insipid  and  flavourless.  They  retain  their  natural 
gamey  aroma,  and  give  the  weakly  stomach  very  little 
trouble.  This  mode  has  also  the  advantage  that  old 
partridges  may  be  simmered  or  stewed  until  they 
become  tender.  They  may  even  be  prepared  previously  ^ 
and  warmed  up  in  their  own  broth  when  wanted. 

Boiled  Duck.  A  favourite  old-fashioned  Welsh  dish. 
Tourists,  returning  from  the  Prineipaliiy,  have  tried  to 
reproduce  it,  and  failed,  for  want  of  knowing  the  secret^ 
which  is  this:  Salt  ycur  ducksy  exactly  as  you  would 


444  POULTBY  AND  OAHE. 

salt  pork,  from  twenty-four  to  forty-eight  hours  before 
cooking,  according  to  the  temperature,  the  salt  taking 
more  rapidly  in  warm  weather  than  in  cold.  Put  your 
ducks  on  in  cold  water.  When  they  boil,  skim ;  and 
soon  afterwards  slip  in  as  many  large  whole  onions  as 
you  will  require  for  sauce.  When  the  onions  are  done 
soft,  mash  them  well,  and  heat  them  up  again  in  a 
saucepan  with  a  little  milk  or  cream  and  a  dust  of 
l)epper.  Wlien  your  ducks  are  tender,  serve  them 
cither  ^^  smothered'^  with  onions,  or  with  the  sauce  in  a 
separate  boat;  in  which  latter  case,  you  may  mask  your 
ducks  with  just  a  little  parsley  and  butter  poured  over 
them.  Boiled  goose  is  equally  good,  but  it  requires 
just  a  little  longer  salting,  in  consequence  of  the  greater 
size  of  the  bird.  Both  of  them  are  suitable  for  weak 
stomachs  which  find  a  difficulty  in  digesting  roast  duck 
and  goose. 

WUd  Sahbity  Boiled,  Tame  rabbits  will  scarcely 
do  for  this ;  they  would  be  too  much  like  boiled  ba — 
No  I  say  sucking-pig. 

Persons  enjoying  good  health  and  spirits  are  apt 
to  regard  diis  and  other  similar  ^^  Insipidities''  with  the 
upturned  nostril  of  disdain.  But  their'  time  may  come 
— we  wish  it  delayed  as  long  as  possible — when  they 
too  will  prefer  toast-and-water  and  gruel  to  more  sub- 
stantial food  and  more  stimulant  drink.  The  truth  is, 
that  the  strong  and  active  have  no  conception  of  the 
wants  of  the  weak.  Until  they  have  been  ill  themselves, 
and  gone  through  the  trial,  they  cannot  in  the  least 
imderstand  why  invalids    should   entertain    almost    a 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  445 

loathing  for  articles  of  diet  which,  in  their  opinion,  arc 
the  very  things  to  restore  their  strength.  Yet  the 
Doctor  has  known  a  pretty  little  meal  to  be  made  off 
Boiled  Babbit  by  delicate  women,  who  would  have 
allowed  a  juicy  roast  leg  of  mutton  to  be  taken  away 
from  table  untouched  by  them. 

"  Good  morning,  Mrs.  Maynard,"  I  said  to  a  lady — 
for  once,  we  will  call  ourselves  / — a  lady  who  pro- 
perly loves  her  lord, — "  I've  just  come  from  the  port, 
and  there's  some  nice  fish  landed ;  but  it  is  quite 
impossible." 

"  It  is  dear,  certainly,"  Mrs.  M.  replied ;  "  but  you 
know,  sir,  where  there's  a  will  there's  a  way." 

"  Ah  I  I  see  it  written  in  your  face  tliat  you  have 
just  been  committing  an  extravagance." 

^^  I  don't  think  so  at  all.  Mr.  Mayuard's  long 
voyages,  and  the  years  he  spent  in  foreign  climates, 
have,  between  them,  made  his  appetite  very  delicate. 
Besides  which,  on  board  ship,  he  had  often  to  eat  what 
didn't  agree  with  him,  or  else  nothing  at  all ;  so  I  am 
obliged  to  get  what  suits  him  best.  This  whiting  is 
just  the  thing  for  his  breakfast  to-morrow, — ^ninepence." 

"  Why,  it's  die  price  of  a  pound  of  meat  1" 

^^Tes,  sir.  But  supposing  that  he  couldrCt  eat  tlic 
pound  of  meat,  and  that  he  can  eat  the  wiiiting  ?  And 
even  if  he  could  eat  the  pound  of  meat,  and  couldn't 
digest  it  afterwards,  what  would  be  the  amount  of 
benefit  that  he  would  derive  from  the  money  it  had 
cost?" 

"You  are  right,   Mrs.    Maynard;  you're  a  true 


446  POULTBY  AND  OAKE. 

•economist     I  am  sore  that  you  must  have  serioudj 
considered  tohxxt  is  reallj  money's  wortL^' 

^^  Lor',  sir,  when  a  woman  has  got  a  good  husband, 
isn't  it  natural  she  should  think  of  what's  most  for  his 
good?" 

Choose,  for  boiling,  one  or  two  young  but  full-grown 
rabbits ;  truss  them  as  if  for  roasting  (removing  the 
6yes).  Leave  the  kidneys  in  their  natural  place ;  put 
the  liver  and  heart  inside  the  belly.  Tou  may  also  put  a 
slice  or  two  of  bacon  in  the  belly ;  fill  up  the  remainder 
of  the  cavity  with  veal-stuffing,  and  stitch  up  the  open- 
ing with  needle  and  thread.  These  additions  are  not 
indispensable;  but  they  are  a  great  improvement, 
plumping  out  the  rabbit,  giving  it  a  more  portly 
■appearance,  and  helping  to  retain  its  natural  juices. 

Set  your  rabbits,  so  prepared,  over  a  moderate  fire, 
in  a  boiler  with  plenty  of  cold  water :  and,  at  the  same 
time,  put  in,  to  cook  with  them,  a  piece  (not  too  thick) 
of  white  bacon  or  breast  of  pork  that  has  been  salted 
some  eight  or  ten  days,  nicely  streaked  with  fat  and 
lean  (a  pound,  or  a  pound  and  a  quarter,  will  be  enough), 
and  previously  steeped  and  rinsed  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Skim  well  as  long  as  any  thing  rises.  When  the 
boiling  point  is  reached,  throw  in  a  stick  of  celery,  three 
turnips  sliced,  three  carrots  ditto,  and  six  or  eight  large 
white  onions  (the  Tripoli  and  Madeira  varieties  are 
excellent  for  this  purpose).  These  vegetables  will  chill 
the  broth ;  skim  again,  as  soon  as  it  returns  a  second 
time  to  the  boiling  point  Then  set  on  one  side  to 
simmer,  or  slacken  the  fire,  until  all  is  done  enough ; 


POULTRY  AND  QAHE.  447 

which  will  be  in  aboot  an  hour  from  the  first  boiling 
np. 

Take  np  the  onions,  mash  them  as  smooth  as  possible 
with  a  wooden  spoon  in  a  basin,  seasoning  with  pepper, 
and  adding  a  couple  of  table-spoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk. 
Rinse  the  bottom  of  a  saucepan  with  a  dessert-spoonfiil 
of  the  broth  (to  prevent  burning) ;  put  in  your  mashed 
onions,  and  heat  them  thoroughly.  Dish  the  boiled 
rabbits ;  pour  the  mashed  onions  over  them :  they  are 
then  called  Babbits  Smotliered  in  Onians. 

Serve  the  bacon  on  a  separate  dish,  garnished  with 
parsley,  and  with  the  carrots  and  turnips  placed  sym- 
metrically round  it.  Slices  of  the  bacon  are  to  be 
oiFered  to  whoever  partakes  of  the  rabbit.  Carve  the 
rabbit,  by  cutting  off  the  legs  and  wings,  like  those  of  a 
fowl;  then. divide  it  into  portions  across  the  back  and 
loins.  A  portion  of  the  loin  is  the  choicest  morsel  to 
offer ;  after  that,  the  leg. 

The  liver  and  heart  of  hares  and  rabbits  are  no  great 
dainties,  either  to  palate  or  stomach.  With  boils,  stews, 
and  civets,  they  are  served  as  a  matter  of  routine,  but 
may  be  allowed,  without  regret,  to  fall  to  the  share  of 
the  favourite  cat  or  the  faithful  dog. 

N.B.  Boiled  liver,  from  any  kind  of  bird  or  animal, 
cooked  without  salt,  and  chopped  or  crumbled  fine,  makes 
excellent  and  handy  food  for  young  gold  or  other  fish. 
Persons  who  amuse  themselves  with  pisciculture  will 
derive  assistance  from  its  use.  And  it  requires  such  a 
tiny  morsel  to  give  a  meal  to  a  whole  shoal  of  fry. 

The  tit-bit  of  the  rabbit  is  the  kidney;  with  which 


448  POULTBT  Am)  QAM£« 

some  epicares  couple  the  brains.  When  the  Doctor's 
ship  comes  from  ^^  Callifomj,"  he  intends  producing  a 
dish  of  rabbits'  kidneys  sautM  in  champagne.  The  poor 
will  profit  hj  the  rabbits'  carcases. 

Some  cooks  boil  rabbits  in  a  winding-sheet  Objec- 
tions to  the  practice  have  been  stated  in  the  case  of 
Boiled  Fowl.  With  the  boilings,  you  may  make  some 
Hasty  Pease  Soup,  which,  for  reasons  already  given  at 
length,  will  make  an  appropriate  precursor  to  the  Babbit 
and  Bacon. 

Snipe  Puddingy  Boiled.  This,  although  not  a  company 
dish,  or  one  to  be  produced  on  state  occasions,  is,  never- 
^jheless,  a  welcome  introduction  to  family  parties  or 
friendly  dinners.  It  is  sure  to  be  received  there  with  a 
hearty  greeting,  unless  the  cook  has  been  greatly  in 
fault ;  while  the  increasing  scarcity  of  snipe  renders  it  a 
mark  of  liberal  entertainment. 

Allow  a  snipe  for  each  person  at  table,  and  one  or 
two  more  over  and  above  that  number.  When  plucked 
and  singed,  merely  remove  the  eyes ;  they  must  be  left 
whole,  vnthout  emptying,  as  for  roasting. 

Take  first-rate  rump-steak  (in  quantity  which  you 
will  easily  calculate  from  the  size  of  your  pudding),  with 
the  small  proportion  of  fat  belonging  to  it ;  cut  it  into 
shapely  pieces,  an  inch  and  a  half  or  two  inches  square ; 
dust  them  well  on  each  side  with  ground  white  pepper^ 
salt,  and  fiour. 

Line  the  inside  of  a  large  pudding-dish  or  basin  with 
pie-crust  rolled  thin  ;  dust  this  with  a  little  flour.  In 
the  pudding-basin,  so  lined,  pack  your  snipe  and  your 


POULTBY  AND  GAME.  449 

Bteak)  placing  them  at  equal  distances  throoghoat  the 
mass,  seasoning  rather  highly  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
sprinkling  amongst  them  (if  not  disapproved)  as  much 
cayenne  pepper  as  will  lie  on  the  point  of  your  penknife. 
If  you  have  one  or  two  brown  or  black-gilled  mush- 
roomS)  clean  and  free  from  maggots^  add  them,  after 
removing  the  stalks  and  peeling  off  the  upper  skin.  K 
not,  replace  them  with  one  or  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of 
mushroom  ketchup ;  with  this  sauce,  however,  you  had 
better  be  sparing,  as  it  is  apt  to  be  very  salt 

Cover  your  pudding  with  thick  crust ;  tie  the  doth 
(dusted  with  flour)  closely  over  it;  set  it  on  the  fire  to 
oook  in  a  large  boiler  or  copper  of  boiling  water,  and  let 
it  boil  galloping  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  even  longer. 
The  truth  is,  that  you  can  hardly  cook  it  too  much  in 
any  reasonable  time.  Let  it  boil  away,  therefore,  until 
the  guests  are  seated  at  table  waiting  for  it  As  soon  as 
it  is  fished  out  of  the  boiler,  and  set  upright  on  a  plate, 
t^ke  off  the  cloth  instantly,  wi&out  scalding  your  fingers 
if  you  can  help  it  Transfer  the  pudding  to  the  dish 
(standing)  on  which  it  is  to  be  sent  to  table,  and  serve 
it  in  the  basin  in  which  it  was  boiled — ^unless,  by  turning 
it  out  for  appearance'  sake,  you  choose  to  risk  the  break- 
ing of  the  crust,  the  leakage  of  the  gravy,  and  the  cooling 
of  the  whole  sooner  than  it  otherwise  would.  If  you 
determine,  at  the  outset,  to  send  up  your  pudding  turned 
out  of  its  basin,  the  crust  with  which  it  is  lined  must 
be  iMck^  which  has  the  inconvenience  of  absorbing  the 
gravy,  and  leaving  on  hand  a  large  stock  of  cold  crust 

Without  the  snipe,  you  have  Boiled  Beef' steak 

GG 


450  POtJtTRT  AlTD  GAME. 

Pudding.  Kidnej  and  ojsters  may  be  added;  as  an 
improvement,  however,  to  the  flavour  rather  than  the 
snbfitanoe,  for  the  long  boiling  will  reduce  them  to 
shrivelled  shreds. 

Like  puddings  may  be  made  with  small  shore- 
birds — Knots  and  Stints :  these  must  be  emptied.  Also 
with  Water-Hens,  and  the  smaller  Wild  Fowl, — ^Teal,  es- 
pecially, make  an  excellent  pudding, — ^Widgeon,  Gblden 
Eyed  Duck,  &c  These  must  be  emptied  and  cut  in 
quarters.  The  same  treatment  is  likewise  advantage- 
ously applied  to  partridges,  pigeons,  small  rabbits,  and 
chicken. 

Sweet  sounds  are  not  unfrequently  drowned  in  pies 
(much  sought  after)  and  puddings,  in  the  shape  of  black- 
birds, thrushes,  and  larks.  But  the  Doctor  has  a  whim 
that  Nature  did  not  send  them  to  be  eaten  by  us.  It  is 
all  very  well  for  cruel  cats  and  bloodthirsty  hawks  to  do 
what  ^^  is  their  nature  to ;''  but  we  ought  to  have  some 
sense  of  thankfulness  for  the  number  of  vermin  the  two 
first  destt*oy ;  while  the  sweet  lark's  numbers  are  not  so 
overwhelming  that  we  cannot  spare  him  a  blade  of  grass- 
salad  and  a  grain  of  oats. 

That  "  Turkey  Boiled  is  turkey  spoiled,"  is  a  saying 
with  more  rhyme  than  reason  about  it.  Nevertheless, 
in  the  numerous  French  Cook-Books  under  which  the 
shelves  of  our  library  bend,  we  cannot  find  a  single 
receipt  for  Boiled  Turkey,  pure  and  simple.  It  seems 
to  be  a  specially  English  dish,  which,  in  spite  of  strong- 
stomached  cavillers—  0  dura  ilia  meaaorumi — 0  cast-iron 
entrails  of  harvestmen! — is  delicate,  light,  unpretend- 


POTJLTBT  AND  QAME.  451 

ing,  ntitritioas,— the  very  pattern  of  a  sociable  supper, 
joint 

Trass  the  torkey  as  if  for  roasting ;  staff  the  crop 
with  veal  stuffing,  as  usual ;  you  may  fill  the  body  with 
chesnuts,  from  which  both  the  outer  find  and  the  inner 
skin  have  been  carefully  removed;  find  room  for  the 
liver,  gizzard,  and  heart  inside.  If  you  do  not  boil  it  in 
a  naj^in,  tie  it  round  with  broad  tape  to  help  you  to 
lift  it  out  of  the  boiler.  Set  your  turkey  on  the  fire  in 
pleniy  of  cold  water ;  skim  all  the  while  it  is  boiling  up ; 
when  it  once  boils,  let  it  only  simmer  until  done  enough, 
the  time  for  which  will  vary  greatly  (from  one  to  four 
hours),  depending  entirely  on  its  size  and  age.  1£  celery 
sauce  is  to  be  eaten  with  it,  the  celery  may  be  cooked 
together  with  the  turkey. 

When  the  simmering  has  rendered  it  perfectly  plump 
and  tender,  serve  garnished  with  parsley  and  scraped 
horse-radish.  Oyeter  sauce  is  an  indispensable  accom-* 
paniment,  but  bread  sauce  and  onion  sauce  are  admissible 
auxiliaries.  The  rump  of  a  boiled  turkey  is  a  thing  to 
quarrel  about 

Turkey  boilings  are  not  particularly  delicate;  they 
will  nevertheless  make  a  palatable  soup,  with  the  aid  of 
a  little  rice  and  a  few  onions  and  other  vegetables. 

French  cooks  employ  turkeys,  which  they  cannot 
roast,  either  for  a  Dauhe^  or  Stew  (often  eaten  cold),  or 
for  a  Ghdantine. 

Turkey  en  DcBube.  Pluck,  singe,  and  empty  a 
dowager  hen  or  an  aged  cock  turkey ;  wrap  it  in  slices 
of  bacon,  or  ^^  prick''  the  breast     Put  it  into  a  close- 


452  POULTBT  AKD  GAHE. 

covered  stewing-pot,  with  parsley^  chives,  clove  of  gariic^ 
aUspioCy  pepper  and  salt,  broth,  a  dram-glass  of  brandy, 
half  a  calf  s  foot,  onions,  carrots,  bonquet  complete, 
cloves,  and  baj-lead  Let  it  cook  slowly,  either  over  a 
gentle  fire  or  in  an  oven,  for  five  or  six  hours,  well 
covered  with  the  liquor  and  the  lid. 

When  the  turkey  is  tender,  take  it  out,  and  let  it 
stand  to  cooL  Boil  down  the  sauce  till  it  is  strong 
enough  to  jelly.  Strain  it,  take  off  the  fat ;  surround 
the  body  of  the  turkey  with  the  jelly,  and  serve  cold* 

It  may  also  be  eaten  hot,  served  with  all  its  ^^  trim-* 
mings,"  except,  of  course,  the  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 

Turkey-cock  h  la  BourgeoUe.  Truss  your  turkey  as 
if  for  roasting,  but  without  any  stuffing.  Brown  it  with 
butter,  by  roasting  before  the  fire.  Lay  it  on  its  back 
in  a  deep  stew-pan,  with  a  few  slices  of  veal  at  the 
bottom ;  cover  it  with  slices  of  bacon,  and  stew  over  a 
very  slow  fire,  moistening  with  broth  or  stock ;  season 
with  bouquet  complete,  pepper  and  salt  Strain  the 
sauce,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  pour  it  over  the  turkey  on 
serving. 

Stuffed  Turkey  h  la  Guinoise.  An  excellent  form  of 
Turkey  Gralantiney  A* 

Prepare  thus  the  broth  in  which  to  cook  your 
turkey.  Take  two  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  half  a 
pound  of  beef,  one  carrot  sliced,  one  turnip  the  same,  a 
fine  head  of  celery,  parsley,  thyme,  a  dove  of  garlic, 
two  onions,  thiriy  cloves,  and  a  little  salt  Boil  all 
these  for  a  couple  of  hours  in  sufficient  water  to  cover 
your  turkey,  replacing  with  boiling  water  from  time  to 


FOULTBY  Aim  GAMS.  453 

time  ihe  waste  oaused  by  evaporation.  Then  Btrain  the 
liquor  away,  adding  to  it  half  a  bottle  of  white  wine. 
The  broth  is  now  ready  to  boil  the  turkey  in. 

Now  for  the  turkey  itself.  Bone  it — an  operation 
for  the  performance  of  which  you  will  have  to  take  a 
lesson.  Save  the  blood  which  comes  away  from  it  Chop 
up  together  the  liver^  lungs,  heart,  and  gizzard  (properly 
cleaned,  and  with  the  skin  peeled  off),  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  bacon,  the  same  of  veal,  twenly  shallots,  some 
parsley,  thyme,  a  heart  of  celery,  pepper,  salt,  allspice, 
and  pounded  cloves.  Mix  these  well  together,  adding 
the  blood  set  aside  and  a  teacupful  of  button  mushrooms. 
[Those  preserved  in  hermetically  sealed  tin  cases  answer 
perfectly.] 

Spread  half  of  this  stuffing  all  over  the  surfitce  of  the 
boned  turkey-flesh ;  on  the  stuffing  put  rows  of  strips  of 
bacon,  of  bacon  in  thin,  narrow  sUces,  of  truffles  also  thinly 
sliced,  and  of  hard  egg-yolks  cut  in  halves.  Cover  these 
with  the  rest  of  the  stuffing.  Then,  first  sew  up  the  turkey 
itself  into  a  sort  of  bag  or  pillow,  with  needle  and  thread ; 
and  next,  sew  it  up  completely  in  a  neat  piece  of  linen  dotL 

Boil  the  turkey,  so  swathed  and  swaddled  in  the 
prepared  broth,  for  three  hours.  Then  remove  its  linen 
envelope :  put  it  in  a  deep  dish,  as  near  as  may  be  of  its 

which  you  then  set  aside  to  be  eaten  cold. 

This  preparation  certainly  gives  a  deal  of  trouble ; 
but  it  makes  a  nice  standing  dish  for  breakfast  and 
luncheon.  The  lady  who  has  achieved  it  is  proud  of  her 
exploit ;  and  Christmas  comes  but  once  a  year. 


454  POULTBT  AlO)  OAJOS. 

Turkey  Galantine^  B.  Take  a  large  tarkej-cock; 
bone  it,  opening  it  bj  the  back,  and  taking  care  not  to 
tear  the  skin ;  draw  the  tendons  of  the  dromsticks* 

Take  the  flesh  of  the  dmmstioks,  a  piece  of  lean  veal, 
and  their  equivalent  in  weight  of  baoon.  Season  with 
salty  spice,  and  sweet  herbs  minced;  pound  all  these 
together  in  a  mortar. 

Spread  out  your  boned  turkey  on  a  fine  linen  doth, 
with  the  flesh  side  uppermost ;  spread  jour  stuffing  over 
it  to  an  inch  in  thickness;  then  a  row  of  slips  of 
smoked  tongue,  or  of  ham ;  another  of  truffles ;  another 
of  blanched  almonds,  pistachio  nuts,  and  very  tiny 
pickled  gherkins.    Over  these  lay  what  stuffing  remains. 

RoU  the  turkey  over  this  stuffing ;  stitch  it  together 
with  needle  and  thread  into  an  oblong  shape,  and  in  such 
a  way  as  to  enclose  the  stuffing  completely.  That  done, 
cover  your  galantine  with  bacon ;  wrap  and  roll  it  in  a 
napkin,  tying  both  the  ends  tight  with  string.  Bind  all 
outside  with  string,  to  keep  it  in  a  proper  shape ;  boil 
it  in  broth,  till  done  enough;  and  serve  it,  as  before, 
cold,  in  a  deep  dish,  with  the  boilings,  strained  and  re- 
duced to  a  jelly,  poured  over  it 

An  excellent  jelly  for  the  galantine  may  be  made  by 
breaking  up  the  bones  and  neck  of  the  turkey,  boiling 
them  slowly  in  a  stew-pan  for  four  hours,  sufficiently 
seasoned  with  salt  and  spice ;  straining  the  liquor,  re- 
ducing it  till  it  will  jelly,  and  then  pouring  it  over  the 
galantine  with  the  addition  of  a  glass  of  good  white  wine. 

Turkey y  Boast  After  emptying  and  singeing  your 
turkey,  stuff  the  crop  with  veal  stuffing.     If,  however. 


POULTBY  AND  GAIOU  455 

the  bird  has  passed  the  bloom  of  jouth,  you  may  use 
sausage-meat,  or  godiveau,  or  other  meat  stu£Sng 
instead,  to  impart  a  little  more  succulence  to  the  flesh ; 
but  for  young  turkeys,  veal  stuffing  is  preferable,  as 
being  more  delicate. 

Procure  a  couple  of  pounds  of  the  best  chesnuts ; 
remove  their  outer  husk  and  their  inner  skin ;  boil  them 
till  tender,  and  with  them  fill  the  body  of  the  turkey. 
The  liver,  gizzard,  and  heart  may  either  be  fiistened  to 
the  wings,  as  with  roast  fowl,  or  put  inside  the  body ; 
the  latter  is  a  firequent  practice  with  foreign  cooks,  and 
it  save3  the  liver  from  being  scorched  and  dried  up  in 
the  roasting.  The  turkey  is  then  trussed  like  an  ordinary 
fowl.  If  the  fire  is  very  fierce,  the  breast  may  be 
protected  for  the  first  hour  with  oiled  paper,  to  be 
removed  and  allow  its  browning  afterwards.  The  time 
will  depend  on  the  twofold  circumstances  of  the  age 
and  size  of  the  bird,  and  the  state  of  your  fire,  which 
should  be  brisker  as  the  roasting  draws  towards  its 
dose. 

Serve  on  a  hot  dish,  either  plain,  in  its  native  beauty 
unadorned,  or  garnished  with  fresh  water-cresses — ^the 
green  look  best  by  candlelight,  the  brown-tinged  are 
preferred  by  the  amateur.  Roast  Turkey  may  be 
accompanied  by  bread  sauce,  onion  sauce,  or  chesnut 
sauce.  Its  own  gravy  may  be  sent  up  with  it,  either 
in  its  natural  state,  as  it  comes  firom  the  dripping-pan, 
with  the  fat  partly  removed  (if  there  is  too  much  of  it), 
or  worked  into  a  brown  sauce  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew- 
pan  with  flour  (browned),  pepper,  half  a  glass  of  red 


456  TOVLTRY  AKB  GAMK. 

wine,  and  mushroom  ketclmp,  or  perhaps  a  litde  tomato 
sauce. 

During  the  roasting,  dredge  occasionallj  with  a  litde 
flour,  and  baste  assiduously  with  the  gravy  that  comes 
from  the  bird.  K  it  is  lean  (or  a  turkey-poult),  butter 
must  be  used  to  assist  the  basting. 

ChesmU  SaucBj  to  eat  with  turkey,  when  it  is  not 
stuffed  with  chesnuts.  Remove  the  outer  husk  from 
half  a  hundred  chesnuts ;  put  them  in  a  chesnut-roaster 
(a  sort  of  warming-pan  riddled  with  holes)  over  a  dear 
fire,  continually  stirring  and  shaking  them,  until  the 
second  skin  will  come  away  easily. 

Then  put  your  chesnuts  into  a  stew-pa^,  with  a  glass 
of  white  wine,  as  much  good  stock  as  will  cover  them,  a 
good  lump  of  butter,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  pounded 
lump-sugar,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  When  boiled 
quite  tender,  but  still  remaining  entire,  put  the  chesnuts 
in  a  hot  sauce-tureen ;  reduce  the  liquor  by  boiling  it  a 
minute  or  two  longer,  and  pour  it  over  them.  They  are 
then  fit  to  be  sent  up  with  the  turkey. 

It  is  impossible  to  dismiss  Boast  Turkey  with  our 
blessing,  without  devoting  a  page  or  two  to  Truffles, 
which  gravitate  towards  that  bird  by  a  law  of  natural 
affinity.  Home-keeping  English  youth  have  no  idea 
of  the  importance  of  Truffles  in  connection  with  the 
American  feathered  biped.*     In  France,  the  influential 

*  Turkeys  were  brought  to  Europe  from  Mexico,  where  they  had 
been  domesticated  from  time  immemorial,  being  the  principal  avaU- 
able  resource  for  animal  food.  The  ancient  Mexicans  were  extremely 
poor  in  live  stock.  They  possessed  not  a  single  beast  of  burden  ;  not 
a  horse,  an  ox,  an  ass,  or  a  camel.    They  had  not  eyen  the  alpaca, 


FOULTBT  ASD  GAMS.  457 

effects  of  tni£9e8  spread,  like  oil,  over  the  waters  of 
socieij.  They  have  been  called  the  diamonds  of  the 
kitchen ;  and,  to  help  the  comparison,  there  ctre  black 
diamonds*  They  have  even  given  their  name  to  an 
epoch ;  Yill^le's  Ministry  was  called  the  ARniat^e  Truffi. 
A  tru£9ed  pM  or  a  tru£9ed  fowl  will  snfiSce  to  soothe  an 
angiy  friend,  to  open  the  doors  of  a  fhtore  father-in-law, 
and  even  to  turn  the  key  inside  the  lock  of  official  gate- 
ways.  Turkeys  p,ire  and  simple,  in  their  natural  state, 
are  a  source  of  immense  revenue.  By  their  aid,  many  a 
farmer  pays  his  rent,  many  a  farmer's  daughter  saves 
her  dowry.  But  in  the  mere  financial  view  of  the 
question,  Truffled  Turkeys  claim  special  notice.  It  was 
calculated  forty  years  ago  that,  from  the  beginning  of 
November  to  the  end  of  February,  there  were  consumed 
in  Paris  three  hundred  truffled  turkeys  per  day,  or  a 
total  of  thirty-six  thousand.  At  present,  the  consump- 
tion  is  immensely  increased.  But  say  that  the  average 
price  of  every  turkey  so  prepared  was  then  only  twenty 
francs  (too  low  a  figure),  it  makes  seven  hundred  and 

which  affords  the  Perurians  a  feeble  means  of  transport    The  sheep 
and  the  goat  were  equally  unknown. 

The  animal  food,  which  they  were  unable  to  obtain  from  flocks  and 
herds,  was  furnished  by  the  chase  and  the  few  animals  which  they 
had  domesticated.  like  the  Chinese,  they  ate  a  yariety  of  dog,  called 
techichi.  But  their  principal  meat  was  Turkey,  called  totdin,  which 
they  reared  in  enormous  quantities.  Turkeys  were  a  drug  suflb- 
ciently  abundant  to  cause  a  national  surfeit.  Cortes  relates  that  the 
poultry-yards  of  Montezuma's  palace  were  stocked  with  sereral 
thousand  turkeys ;  and  Bemal  Diaz  tells  how,  eyery  day,  a  couple  of 
hundred  were  sacrificed  to  feed  the  beasts  in  the  Emperor's  menagerie; 
proying,  first,  that  the  said  menagerie  was  yast,  and,  secondly,  that 
turkeys  then  were  not  yery  dear. 


458  POULTBT  Am)  GAHK* 

twenty  thousand  francs  in  all — ^a  pretty  little  stun  to  be 
put  in  circulation  by  the  partnership  between  a  single 
species  of  bird  and  fungus.  An  equal  amount  of  money 
was  assumed  to  be  laid  out  in  the  purchase  of  the  truffled 
fowlS)  pheasants,  chicken,  and  partridges,  whidi  tanta- 
lise the  appetites  of  francless  men  from  the  windows  of 
restaurants,  roaiMers,  and  charcutiers. 

The  latter's  displays  have  often  caused  us  to  observe 
that  the  dose  relations  between  truffles  and  pigs  are 
both  curious,  retributive,  and  reciprocal.  Piggy  was 
the  first  to  discover  the  truffle,  for  his  own  private  eat- 
ing. Man  took  the  truffle  away,  and  ate  it  himselE 
Man's  Dog  pushed  the  pig  on  one  side,  and  helped  his 
master  in  truffle-hunting  instead  The  charcutier  now 
unites  the  two  old  acquaintances  in  one  common  grave 
— ^the  pat^,  sausage,  truffled  pigs'  feet,  truffled  boar's 
head,  or  whatever  other  form  of  combination  may  be 
devised.  As  pigs  were  the  first  to  uproot  truffles,  so 
truffles  now  enjoy  the  sweet  revenge  of  increasing  the 
shouts  of  joy  and  triumph  which  are  uttered  over  the 
carcases  of  innumerable  pigs.  It  is  a  bloody  mode  of 
retaliation,  especially  when  black-puddings  are  con- 
oemed« 

For  the  few  persons  who  do  not  know,  it  may  be 
well  to  state  what  truffles  are.  T%J>€r  cibarium  and 
Lf/eoperdcn  tuber  are  learned  names  for  a  curious  plant ; 
a  fungus  which  grows  completely  underground ;  a  vege- 
table which  has  neither  leaves,  roots,  flowers,  nor  stems, 
that  we  can  perceive.  Truffles  have  been  found  in 
England,  in  the  downs  of  Wiltshire  and  Hampshire ; 


POULTBT  AKD  GAMB.  459 

thejr  probably  occur  in  many  places  where  they  escape 
observatioiiy  from  their  subterranean  habits:  but  as 
drought  and  heat  are  necessary  to  their  perfection^ 
British-grown  truffles  are  worth  but  little.  Where  the 
vine  thrives,  there  thrive  truffles ;  in  Burgundy,  well — 
better,  more  to  the  south.  About  P^rigord,  and  at  the 
foot  of  the  Pyrenees,  the  truffle  b^t  produces  its 
irregular  lumps  of  vegetable  flesh. 

There  are  animals  that  you  would  hardly  take  to  be 
animals ;  add  there  are  plants  that  few  would  believe  to 
be  plants.  The  truffle  is  one  on  the  latter  list,  as  wild 
and  unmanageable  in  its  nature  as  it  is  possible  to  be. 
Pliny  called  it  the  excrement  of  the  eartL  It  thrives 
best  in  a  mixture  of  gravel  and  day,  on  spots  which 
the  sun  occasionally  (and  occasionally  only)  bakes  to 
the  heat  of  a  natural  oven.  Favourable  localities  are 
the  slopes  of  hills,  the  skirts  of  woods,  the  uncultivated 
brinks  of  summer  torrents  and  unrestrained  brooklets, 
and  the  shadowy  places  beneath  the  arms  of  vast  oaks, 
poplars,  birches,  and  willows.  Like  mushrooms,  truf- 
fles often  make  a  sudden  growth  aft;er  thunder-storms 
and  heavy  summer  showers.  It  was  once  believed  that 
storm-clouds  laid  them,  as  a  hen  lays  eggs. 

Some  say  they  are  found  more  plentifully  at  full  and 
new  moon.  It  is  clear  that  a  night-search  aKthe  former 
bright  period  must  greatly  aid  the  dogs  in  finding,  by 
the  dew  on  the  ground  causing  the  scent  to  lie.  Hogs 
were  formerly  used  for  the  discovery  of  truffles ;  dogs 
are  now.  A  tame  grunter,  who  knew  the  taste  of  truf- 
fles, was  taken  out  for  a  rural  walk;  he  was  sure  to 


460  POUI/TBT  AlTD  GAMS. 

make  a  point  at  every  spot  where  sayomy  odours  arose 
fix>m  the  ground ;  his  proboscis  went  to  work ;  a  cry  of 
exaltation  escaped  him  at  the  moment  when  the  dainty 
morsel  was  attained;  then  came  down  upon  him  a 
shower  of  thundering  blows  with  the  stick ;  his  master 
compelled  him  to  relinquish  his  prize,  and  content  him- 
self with  a  handful  of  acorns. 

TrufBe-dogs  do  not  require  such  severe  disdpline ; 
ihey  are  better  trained  and  better  treated.  They  are  little 
bright-eyed,  wiiy,  mongrel  terriers,  rather  inclined  to 
give  themselves  airs.  They  look  as  if  they  wanted  to 
let  you  know,  ^^  You  may  patronise  me  or  not,  just  as 
you  like.  I  am  a  perfectly  independent  dog.  J£  truffle- 
finding  should  happen  to  fiul,  I  can  at  any  time  earn 
my  living  (and  a  comfortable  one  too)  by  rat-catching/' 
They  are  taught  the  smell  and  taste  of  truffles ;  they 
scratch  the  ground  when  they  scent  the  black  pearl 
hidden  beneath ;  and  a  few  truffles  are  now  and  then 
given  them  for  their  pains.  For  Man's  propensity  to 
truffles  is  shared  in  common  by  dogs,  foxes,  wolves, 
and  swine. 

But  there  are  men  who  make  a  trade  of  truffle- 
gathering  without  any  animal  assistant  whatever.  Most 
of  those  with  whom  we  have  talked  on  the  subject,  refer 
the  faculty  (when  exercised  by  men)  to  a  kind  of  instinct, 
whidi  they  exercise  without  being  able  to  give  an  ac- 
count of  it  As  Fine-ear,  in  the  fitiiy  tale,  could  hear 
the  grass  grow,  so  these  Fine-eyes  or  Fine-noses  per- 
ceive or  sniff  the  hidden  tuber.  They  can  look  through 
a  millstone  which  has  tio  hole  in  the  centre.    They 


POULTBT  Ain)  GAME.  461 

pretend  to  take  rank  with  the  treastire*disooyererB  or 
water-diviners  whom  the  mysterious  agency  of  a  hazel- 
rod  conducts  to  their  object  But  in  this  there  is 
nothing  really  miraculous;  the  human  mind  cannot 
always  retrace  the  steps  which  itself  has  taken.  Cal- 
culating boys  have  given  correct  arithmetical  results, 
which  they  woidd  have  a  difficulty  in  working  out  on 
paper. 

As  old  experience  doth  attain  to  something  like 
prophetic  strain,  so  truffle-hunters  may  acquire  nicely 
discriminating  powers  by  practice.  Outward  symptoms 
for  their  guidance  are  far  from  being  wanting.  Where 
the  gravelly  surface  is  bare  of  vegetation ;  where,  struck 
with  a  stick,  it  gives  a  hollow  sound ;  where  there  are 
alight  little  swellings  and  bulgings  of  the  soil;  where 
there  are  certain  unusual  cracks ;  where  tiny  clouds  of 
minute  blue  flies  hover  constantly  over  the  same  spot,  as 
if  they  had  found  a  nidua  for  their  eggs, — ^there  is  the 
place  to  search  for  truffles.  Not,  however,  in  too  great 
a  hurry :  for  if  the  ground  is  broken  before  the  truffles 
are  ripe,  the  bed  suffers,  even  although  the  earth  be 
returned  immediately — ^truffles  being,  like  others  of  their 
class,  gregarious  and  social  in  their  mode  of  growth. 
But  the  more  numerous  they  are  on  the  spot,  the  less 
is  the  volume  of  individual  specimens.  Truffles  vary 
greatly  in  size,  from  two  or  three  lines  to  five  or  six 
inches  in  diameter.  Their  average  bigness  is  less  than 
that  of  a  hen's  egg;  they  seldom  weigh  more  than 
seven  or  eight  ounces,  though  much  heavier  specimens 
are  on  record.    The  chances  are  that  the  fourte^i-pound 


462  POULTBT  AHD  GAHE. 

truffle^  seen  by  HftUer,  was  not  of  genaine  unsopliisti* 
cated  growth.  As  a  general  mle,  the  peasant  extractors 
and  the  local  specolatora  in  truffles  are  not  oyer-scm- 
pnlons  in  the  means  they  employ  to  pat  off  inferior 
merchandise. 

They  easily,  ibr  instance^  make  large  truffles  ont  of 
little  ones.  The  process  is  simple.  They  pin  together, 
by  means  of  thorns  or  small  wooden  skewers,  a  number 
of  small  truffles.  The  block  of  truffles  once  formed,  they 
fill  up  all  the  ^ps  with  moist  earth ;  they  cement  erery 
chink,  till  the  cluster  of  ordinary  truffles  is  taken  for  one 
enormous  monster.  Truffle-fanciers  swallow  the  bait^ 
The  wonder  circulates  in  the  commercial  world,  and  ii 
bought  and  sold  again  like  the  Pigot  diamond.  To  the 
final  consumer,  when  the  phenomenon  is  washed,  is 
revealed  the  bitter  trutL 

Althougli  truffles  refuse  to  grow  in  wet  land  (as  wdl 
as  in  ground  that  has  been  manured),  yet  rainy  summers 
and  wet  springs  are  favourable  to  their  development. 
If  accounts  are  correct,  truffles  must  enter  the  catalogue 
of  plants  gifted  with  the  power  of  motion.  It  has  been 
remarked  that  in  August,  when  tiie  truffle  begins  to 
ripen,  it  rises  nearer  to  the  surface  of  the  soil  which 
covers  it  It  even  appears  to  mount  with  an  elasticiiy  of 
sufficient  force  to  cause  it  occasionally  to  come  out  of 
the  ground  into  the  open  air.  How  this  is  effected  has 
not  been  stated.  It  is  generally  believed  that  if  truffles 
are  once  disturbed  in  the  ground,  although  they  have 
no  root-fibres,  they  cease  to  grow,  and  remain  stationary, 
imbibing  no  further  nutriment  fix>m  the  earth,     lliere 


POULTBT  Am)  OAHB.  463 

they  seem  to  lie  like  a  dry  seed  in  its  pod.    Bat  if  left 
qaiet^  thej  increase  insensibly. 

The  season  for  truffle-digging  is  firom  the  month  of 
October  to  the  end  of  December,  and  sometimes  even 
np  to  February,  If  not  gathered  when  arrived  at  ma- 
tnrity,  they  rot,  an^  their  remains  serve  as  the  meisois 
of  reproducing  a  future  generation  of  tubers.  At  the 
beginning  of  summer — sooner  or  later,  according  to 
the  warmth  of  the  weather — ^the  little  truffles  are  found, 
about  the  size  of  peas,  reddish  without,  and  white  within. 
The  subterranean  peas  gradually  increase  in  bigness. 
At  a  later  period,  they  are  taken  up  in  the  shape  of  what 
are  called  white  tniffies^  which  are  immature,  and  com- 
paratively  insipid  in  flavour.  It  has  always  been 
considered  impossible  to  propagate  truffles  by  artificial 
culture. 

In  England,  there  are  not  many  besides  French 
cooks  who  make  use  of  truffles.  It  is  only  lately  that 
English  epicures  have  pronounced  in  their  favour,  and 
that  their  consumption  has  mounted  beyond  the  merest 
trifle.  All  the  truffles  consumed  in  England  by  the 
gourmand  world  come  from  France.  They  are  sent 
over  fresh  during  the  season,  and  are  afterwards  pre- 
served in  bottles.  The  fresh  ones  may  be  good;  but 
the  chances  are  against  the  quality  of  those  in  bottles. 
In  general,  the  English  are  reputed  inferior  connois- 
seurs in  affairs  of  the  table ;  they  do  not  stand  first-rate 
as  gastrosophs.  Nevertheless,  truffles  are  beginning  to 
make  their  way. 

Toulouse,  from,  its  position,  has  excellent  truffles, 


464  POULTBT  Aim  QJJOL 

which  are  more  stadiou&lj  manipalated  than  in  many 
other  parts  of  France.  The  preparation  of  the  article  is 
in  the  hands  of  persons  who  make  it  up  in  p&t^,  in 
terrines,  or  earthen  pans  eorered  with  grease,  in  pots, 
and  in  tin  cases,  with  fowl  or  game.  On  listening  to 
the  language  and  the  Garonienne  assurance  of  these 
gentry,  you  would  believe  them  to  be  in  possession  of 
the  most  advanced  secrets  of  the  gastronomic  art  They 
fix  the  price  current,  and  despatch  their  circulars  to 
every  great  person  in  the  four  quarters  of  the  world. 
In  all  the  towns  and  villages  of  P^rigord,  truffles  are 
employed  as  at  Toulouse,  with  the  exception  of  a  few 
slight  differences.  Fowls  and  game  are  manipulated 
^^  aux  truffes,'*  after  a  preliminary  cooking  in  boiling 
&t,  a  seasoning,  and  a  spicing.  But  in  P&rigord  the 
atrociiy  is  committed  of  peeling  the  truffles  and  pounding 
the  rind  to  enter  into  the  composition  of  stufflng — a 
villanous  piece  of  roguery,  seeing  that  the  asperities  of 
the  tuber  do  not  contain  an  atom  of  its  perfume.  A 
great  number  of  small  towns,  all  situated  in  this  part  of 
France,  have  an  enormous  renown  for  the  preparation 
of  truffles  in  the  above-mentioned  forms,  and  also  in 
galantines,  or  boned  fowls.  Some  of  the  principal  are 
— Buffec,  P€rigeux,  Barb^eieux,  AngoulSme  (where 
naughty  men  steep  truffles  in  water,  to  make  them 
weigh  heavier),  Limoges,  Brives,  Sarlat,  Souillac,  Ber- 
g&ac,  and  N^rac ;  but  at  the  last  place  they  have  been 
reproached  with  being  too  heavy-handed  with  bacon 
and  spices.  Cunning  virtuosi  hereabouts  hold  that,  to 
make  a  perfect  truffled  turkey,  the  truffles  ought  to  be 


POULTBT  AND  GAHE.  465 

introduced  inunediatelj  afl»r  the  bird  is  killed  and 
plncked* 

The  Alsacians,  and  notably  the  people  of  Strasbourg, 
have  the  merit  of  rendering  due  justice  to  tru£9es. 
Pastrycooks  mostly  rule  the  culinary  art  Some  score 
of  these  personages  in  Strasbourg  are  the  sole  makers  of 
the  immense  number  of  Iruffled  goose  Jiver  pies  which 
are  dispersed  throughout  the  face  of  the  globe.  Some 
of  them  are  extremely  rich,  and  consider  themselves  of 
no  Uttle  importance,  in  consequence  of  their  frequent 
intercourse  with  nobles  and  millionaires. 

A  singular  adventure  happened  to  one  of  them.  A 
distinguished  person  from  Germany  gave  this  pastry- 
cook an  order  for  a  truffled  goose-liver  pat£  of  enormous 
dimensions,  which  were  indicated  by  making  a  circle 
with  the  finger  on  an  unusually  large  dining-table.  K 
historians  do  not  err,  six  hundred  francs,  or  242.,  was 
the  price  agreed  on.  Four-and-twenty  hours  were 
allowed  for  its  delivery ;  a  handsome  stun  on  account 
was  paid ;  and  a  penalty  in  case  of  failure  was  fixed, 
more  to  insure  exactitude  than  as  any  indemnity  to  the 
illustrious  personage.  The  artist  was  by  no  means  sur- 
prised at  receiving  so  extravagant  an  order,  because  he 
was  aware  that  the  Gfermans  are  fond  of  setting  large 
joints  upon  their  table.  It  is  not  rare  to  see  a  whole 
roebuck  figuring  in  the  midst  of  a  substantial  dinner. 

Our  pat^-maker,  overjoyed  beyond  measure,  went 
to  work  immediately.  He  suspended  all  his  other  tasks, 
slaughtered  hecatombs  of  geese,  procured  the  required 
supply  of  livers,  recruited  several  supernumerary  assist- 

H  H 


466  POtTLTBT  Amy  game. 

ants,  kneaded  the  paste,  and  began  b j  laying  the 
foundation  of  the  pat^,  which  promised  to  assume  the 
prq)ortion8  of  a  brewer's  mash-tub.  That  done,  and 
the  circumferential  wall  of  crust  built  round  it,  he  filled 
his  pat^,  trimmed  it,  affixed  the  decorative  architecture, 
put  the  top  on,  and  added  the  glazing.  It  was  already 
a  charming  edifice,  highly  finished,  in  the  composite 
order. 

Night  was  fiir  advanced  when  the  exploit  was  com- 
pleted. It  was  the  proudest  day  of  his  life.  He  marched 
in  ecstasy  round  his  marveUous  work.  He  regaled  his 
aides-de-can^  with  bumpers  of  Bhine-wine.  One  thing 
alone  amioyed  him — ^that  there  would  not  be  time  to 
carry  this  masterpiece  in  triumph  through  every  street 
of  the  town. 

In  short,  after  a  few  moments'  delay,  spent,  naturally 
enough,  in  copious  libations,  the  oven  was  heated,  its 
temperature  tested,  and  at  last  the  pat^,  borne  by  four 
of  the  most  eminent  disciples,  presented  at  the  oven-door. 
But — overwhelming  sorrow  I — ^the  oven-door  was  too 
narrow — too  narrow  by  half  I 

'^  Malediction,  rage,  despair  I'^  they  shouted,  smitten 
with  sudden  stupefaction.    "  We  are  lost — ^undone  I" 

<<The  reputation  of  my  old-established  house  is 
destroyed,"  said  the  chief.  ^'  Eall  me,  my  friends.  I 
cannot  survive  this  blow." 

They  tried  in  vain,  in  all  directions,  to  get  the  pat^ 
in^-comerwise,  or  any  how.  The  time  was  spent  in  use-i 
less  lamentations,  until  the  moment  of  delivery  arrived. 

^^  If  I  lose  the  pat^,  I  had  better  not  lose  my 


F0T7LTBY  Am>  6AMB.  ^67 

customer  too ;"  a  reflection  which  helped  to  calm  his 
agitation.  So  he  resigned  himself  to  fate,  waited  on  his 
patron,  and,  cotton  nightcap  in  hand,  stated  the  unfor- 
tunate disappointment,  with  the  humblest  expressions  of 
penitent  affliction.  The  great  man  only  laughed,  like 
an  apathetic  German  as  he  was,  gave  up  the  instalment 
already  paid,  and  dismissed  him  with  the  consolatory 
advice :  ^^  Mein  Herr,  de  next  time  you  make  a  grand 
bat6,  you  vill  take  your  timensions  petter  I" 

Ecofu>micaUy  Truffled  Turkey.  'For  a  small  turkey, 
take  a  quarter  or  a  third  of  a  pound,  for  a  large  one, 
half  a  pound,  of  truffles.  Large  tubers  are  to  be  pre- 
ferred, with  the  fewest  irregularities  on  their  surface ; 
smell  them,  to  be  sure  they  are  not  mouldy.  Wash 
them  carefully,  scrubbing  off  with  a  soft  brush  every 
particle  of  earth  or  grit  that  sticks  to  them ;  let  them 
drain  and  dry.  Do  not  peel  them,  but  slice  them  across 
as  thin  as  possible. 

Skin  and  boil  a  good  quantity  of  the  best  chesnuts, 
as  directed  for  ordinary  Boast  Turkey.  Mix  your  sliced 
truffles  with  these,  and  with  them  fill  the  body  of  your 
bird  two  or  three  days  before  it  is  to  be  cooked.  On  the 
day  of  cooking,  fill  the  crop  of  the  bird  with  veal  stuff- 
ing, and  roast  as  before.  Send  up  with  it  its  own  gravy 
in  a  hot  sauce-boat.  You  may  accompimy  your  turkey 
with  bread  sauce  and  onion  sauce,  for  the  use  of 
heretical  epicures ;  but,  as  a  rule,  the  truffle  admits  no 
rival  flavour  to  approach  it. 

This  mode,  which  is  elegant  and  yet  unpretending, 
will  give  ^ttite  as  liberal  a  taste  of  truffles  as  will  be 


468  POXTLTBY  AlTD  GAME. 

cared  for  by  people  who  are  not  eaceaswely  fond  of  them^ 
and  more  than  enough  to  satisfy  manj— 'for  the  passion 
for  tmfBes  is  an  acquired  taste.  Novices  make  light  of 
them,  comparing  them  to  turnips  impregnated  with  tar. 
The  price  of  truffles  varies  so  considerablj-  from  year  to 
year,  that  no  estimate  can  be  formed  of  the  probable 
cost  of  this  economical  dainty  disL  Last  Christmas,  the 
Doctor  expended  at  least  half-a-crown  on  truffles  only ; 
but  during  the  winter  of  1866-7,  truffles  were  unusually 
abundant  and  cheap. 

Extraoagcmtly  Truffled  Turkey.  Take  a  very  fine 
young  cock-bird  of  the  current  year ;  kill  him  at  home ; 
pluck,  empty,  and  singe  him  immediately ;  and  before 
he  is  cold,  stuff  him  throughout,  crop,  body,  abdomen 
and  all,  as  full  as  he  can  stick,  with  the  best  of  truffles 
(cleaned  as  above,  and  with  any  suspicious  parts  of  their 
surface  cut  out),  whole,  halved,  quartered,  sliced, 
chopped  in  pieces, — any  how  that  will  help  you  to  pack  his 
carcase  with  the  precious  cargo, — ^until  his  skin  is  as  tight 
as  a  drum.  Let  him  hang  till  sufficiently  ^'  mortified  ;'^ 
then  roast  him  ceremoniously  with  all  the  honours.  The 
cook  ought  to  be  indulged  with  a  couple  of  assistant- 
basters,  and  an  admiring  public  may  be  admitted  to  the 
kitchen  gallery  to  behold  and  snifil  When  done  to  a 
turn,  send  him  to  table  in  triumph,  accompanied  by 
nothing  but  his  own  proper  gravy. 

Turkeys  truffled  on  this  profiise  scale  will  be  most 
cheaply,  as  well  as  most  conveniently,  procured  from 
France.  In  cold,  dry  weather,  they  will  be  improved 
by  the  journey,  and  they  arrive  quite  prepared  to  go 


POtTLT&Y  AND  GAME.  469 

through  their  fiery  ordeaL  The  price  of  a  handsomely 
tmffled  turkey  will  vary  firom  one  to  three  or  four  pounds 
sterling)  and  upwards — a  mere  trifle  for  the  possession 
of  a  culinary  gem  of  the  first  water-in-the-mouth,  in 
artistic  setting. 

It  is  curious,  we  think — ^we  don't  quite  exactly  know; 
for  truffles  are  altogether  a  paradox,  a  mystery,  a  con- 
tradiction, an  enigma — but  we  are  diffidently  of  opinion 
that  truffles  derive  their  renown  not  so  much  firom  their 
flavour  as  from  the  quality  of  their  substance.  It  is  not 
the  sense  of  taste  alone  which  is  peculiarly  gratified,  but 
also  that  of  feeling,  and  of  pleasurable  action  and 
exercise  of  the  organs  employed  in  mastication  and 
deglutition.  Arab  couriers  prevent  their  salivaiy  glands 
from  falling  asleep  by  perseveiingly  sucking  pellets  of 
gum.  As  a  schoolboy,  the  Doctor  has  chewed  a  lump 
of  India-rubber  for  hours  together,  and  has  often 
witnessed  the  performance  of  a  similar  operation,  for  a 
shorter  period,  on  a  mouthful  of  nuts.  Truffle-eating 
borders  upon  these  enjoyments,  besides  gently  touching 
upon  sundry  others. 

Young  people  are  rarely  capable  of  appreciating 
truffles ;  nor  are  working  people.  It  requires  an  educa- 
tion to  understand  them  properly.  But  for  those  gifted 
with  the  true  faculty — ^respectable  old  gentlemen,  for 
instance,  who  have  no  other  thought  or  pleasure  than 
eating  and  drinking— truffles  are  the  superlative  of 
edible  substances.  They  are  sought  for  with  avidity ; 
they  are  devoured  by  the  eyes  before  they  reach  the 
mouth ;  their  odour  causes  every  nerve  to  tremble ;  and 


470  POULTBY  AKD  GAME. 

the  effect  on  the  palate  of  the  ecstatic  gonrmand  is  a 
sensation  of  ineffable  delight  To  some  palates,  a  slight 
amonnt  of  apprehensive  trepidation  is  combined  with 
the  foretaste  of  anticipated  pleasure.  On  first  receiving 
a  piece  of  traffle  into  your  mouth,  you  are  afraid  it 
should  turn  out  nasty,  and  it  proves  tolerably  nice; 
you  doubt  whether  you  can  chew  it  properly,  and  your 
molars  succeed  beyond  your  expectation.  It  coquettes 
with  your  palate,  plays  with  your  tongue,  and  challenges 
your  teeth  with  pleasing  provocation.  When  you  have 
got  it  safe,  you  don't  know  whether  to  treat  it  as  a  bit  of 
gutta-percha,  a  slice  of  crisp  carrot,  a  fleshy  mushroom, 
or  a  solid  Brazil  nut.  It  is  the  puzzle  which  pleases — ^the 
perplexity  which  proves  so  piquant 

With  a  slice  of  beef  on  your  plate  and  a  mealy 
potato,  or  the  wing  of  a  fowl  and  a  few  green  peas,  you 
go  on  with  your  meal  straightforwardly  enough;  you 
chat  your  ordinary  chat,  and  take  your  ordinary  allow- 
ance  of  wine,  with  every-day  indifference.  But  with  a 
coal-black  slice  of  the  subterranean  fungus  adorning  the 
prongs  of  your  fork,  you  assume  the  right  to  make 
gallant  speeches  to  your  fair  neighbour  opposite ;  you 
make  ready,  present,  and  fire  your  wit,  if  you  have  any, 
and  find  the  best  substitute  you  can,  if  you  haven't ;  you 
put  middle-aged  claret  aside,  and  take  to  ancient  port 
or  Burgundy  ;  in  short,  there  are  truffles  on  the  dinner- 
table. 

Are  truffles  indigestible?    Very  weighty  authori- 

ies  (whose  wish,  perhaps,  is  father  to  their  thought) 

hold  that  they  are  ru^  indigestible,  citing,  amongst  other 


POULTBT  AKD  GAHE;  471 

instanees,  the  case  of  Doctor  Maloaet  (a  notorious  gonr- 
mand}  who  swallowed  trufSes  enough  to  put  an  elephant's 
stomach  out  of  order,  but  who  still  reached  the  respect- 
able age  of  eighty-six).  Nevertheless,  people,  half  whose 
teeth  have  emigrated,  while  the  other  half  are  not  in 
coincident  positions,  should  be  careiul  how  thej  masti- 
cate truffles ;  otherwise,  the  tuber  is  pronounced  to  be 
perfectly  digestible. 

Are  truffles  invigorating,  restorative,  and  exciting 
food?  French  popular  literature  sets  up  a  unanimous 
shout  in  the  affirmative  ;  and  yet,  the  matter  is  far  from 
clear.  About  truffles,  there  is  nothing  proved  or  certain ; 
they  are  the  Cynthias  of  the  minute,  whom  you  must 
catch  in  a  cloud,  and  do  the  best  you  can  with  them 
afterwards.  Our  own  medical  attendant,  whom  we  have 
confidentially  consulted  as  to  the  constitutional  effects  of 
truffles,  says :  '^  As  restoratives,  truffles  are  almost  always 
taken  in  combination  with  Tokay,  Burgundy,  and  other 
powerful  wines;  it  may,  therefore,  be  the  wine  alone 
which  produces  the  beneficial  effect,  if  any.  They  are 
not  in  themselves  at  all  exciting,  any  more  than  mu^- 
rooms,  morels,  laver,  cheese-mould,  fern-root,  or  any 
other  dyptogamous  condiment ;  and  yet,  the^  are.  You 
never  dream  of  eating  truffles  when  you  are  quietly 
supping  or  dining  alone  or  in  family.  When  you  eat 
truffles,  it  is  always  at  a  grand  entertainment,  with 
abundance  of  succulent  and  high-seasoned  dishes,  with 
extra  wine  both  in  quantity  and  quality,  and  under  the 
mental  spur  applied  by  cheerful,  witty,  and  imaginative 
conversation.     I  therefore  do  think  that,  after  you  have 


472  POXJLTBT  AKD  GAMEi 

been  feasting  on  tnii&ee,  it  will  be  only  prudent  to  exer- 
cise all  the  self-oontrol  and  circnmspection  you  can." 
But  he  did  not  hint  a  single  word  about  repudiating 
truffles,  friendly  dinners,  or  little  suppers  to  a  moderate 
amount. 

French  cooks  make  a  dish  of  Turkey  Giblets,  as  we 
do  of  Groose  Giblets ;  but  our  way  of  trussing  does  not 
admit  of  that ;  moreover,  we  do  not  want  to  be  robbed 
of  so  delicate  a  morsel  as  the  turkey-pinion.  Those 
pinions  (ailerons)  they  collect  in  quantities,  to  garnish 
the  most  incongruous  di^es,  as  weU  as  to  constitute  a 
dish  by  themselves.  But  fancy  high-flying  epicures 
delighting  in  salmon  stewed  in  a  couple  of  bottles  of 
champagne,  garnished  with  glazed  turkey-pinions  and 
fresh-water  crawfish  cooked  in  the  same  nectar  I  Ude 
gives  a  receipt  for  a  Harricot  of  Turkey  Pinions. 

There  are  international  diflPerences  in  the  mode  of 
carving  Turkey,  the  mention  of  which  must  not  be 
omitted.  Abroad,  the  white  flesh — ^the  blanc^  and  the 
brown  flesh — ^the  bis  (the  same  word  is  used  to  denote 
brown  bread),  are  held  in  general  estimation ;  although, 
as  with  us,  ladies  often  prefer  the  white,  male  gastro- 
nomes the  brown  :  but,  just  as  frequently,  both  like  both. 
With  us,  if  the  legs  happen  to  be  left,  they  are  after- 
wards served  either  cold,  hashed,  broiled,  or  devilled. 
In  French  fiunily  life,  the  legs  will  be  openly  cut  ofi^, 
and  set  aside  for  fiiture  usa  Many  coarse  jokes  have 
sprouted  out  of  the  practice.  ^^  MaJUle^  serrez  les  cuisses^^ 
— ^^  My  daughter,  shut  up  the  thighs  in  the  closet ;" 
^^  Such,"  according  to  the  Almanach  des  Oourmandsy  ^^  is 


POVLTBT  AND  GAME.  473 

the  first  word  the  mother  of  a  family  addresses  to  hei 
eldest  girl  the  moment  the  turkey  is  dissected;  and 
instantly  the  thighs  disappear  from  the  table,  to  appear 
next  day  en  Bimouladej*  or  stewed  with  onions,  or  with 
Sanoe  Robert  At  opolent  tables,  the  thighs  are  not 
shut  np,  bnt  eaten ;  nevertheless,  it  is  usual  that,  before 
distributing  them,  the  carver  should  receive  the  repeated 
order  of  the  master  of  the  house.  The  guesto  do  not 
fiul,  out  of  politeness,  to  pretend  a  faint  resistance  to  the 
act  of  distribution ;  but,  at  the  bottom  of  their  hearts, 
they  are  very  glad  that  the  thighs  are  not  always  ^^  shut 
up  in  the  closet.^' 

It  is  true  that  these  droll  and  parsimonious  tactics 
are  a  trait  of  the  manners  of  the  First  Empire ;  but 
every  body  knows  that  old-established  ways  linger  long 
in  the  habits  of  a  people. 

Another  way  of  dividing  a  turkey  at  table  (which  is 
not  only  permissible,  but  even  convenient,  when  a  small 
family, are  quite  alone)  is  to  take  from  it  the  Bonnet 
cTEvSque^  or  the  Bishop^s  Cap,  and  set  that  aside  for  to- 
morrow's use,  making  the  remainder  serve  for  to-day. 

With  your  carving-knife,  disconnect  the  thighs  from 
the  fore  or  white-fleshed  part  of  the  bird,  but  leave  them 
stiU  attached  to  the  back  and  side  bones.  Then  cut 
through  the  back,  so  as  to  divide  the  turkey  into  two 

^  Sauce  Bimouladef  for  cold  roast  meat.  Take  parsley,  chires,  or 
spring  onions,  capers,  anchovies,  shallots,  and  a  couple  of  blanched 
celery  leaf-stalks  ;  chop  these  all  together.  Stir  them,  pouring  over 
them  oil,  vinegar,  and  a  little  mustard,  till  yon  have  mixed  them  to  the 
consistency  of  a  sauce.  Pour  it  into  your  sauce-boat,  and  serve  cold. 
—A  piquant  bnt  wholeaome  sauoe. 


474  POULTBT  AND  GAIOB. 

tolerably  eqaal  halyes.  Set  the  hind  part  on  a  dish,  with 
the  romp  and  the  two  dnunaticks  pointing  upwards,  and 
you  will  see  at  once  that  you  have  got  a  Bishop* 9  Cctpj  a 
TTiree-'Comered  MUrey  procured  with  less  trouble  than 
those  which  poor  Torick  complained  his  head  was  never 
made  to  fit  The  Bonnet  d'EvSquSj  warmed  up  in  a 
stew-pan  and  nicely  garnished,  makes  a  very  presentable 
introduction  next  day.  Curry  is  one  of  its  most  appro* 
priate  sauces,  and  Boiled  Bice  its  best  accompaniment. 
A  large  fowl  or  capon  will  also  fomish  a  minor  Bishop's 
Cap,  if  desired. 

This  division  of  the  bird  likewise  gives  rise  to  jokes, 
often  at  the  expense  of  the  niggardly  host.  One  of  the 
tit-bits  of  the  turkey  is  the  side  bone,  so  highly  estimated 
as  to  be  named  the  "  Sot-Vy-laiase^'* — ^the  "  Fool-leaves-it- 
there. '^  It  is  not,  as  some  dictionaries  say,  '^  the  Parson's 
Nose,*'  which  is  the  Bump,  but  the  two  delicate  morsels 
lying  on  each  side  of  the  back-bone,  adjacent  to  the 
rump.*  Now,  the  Sot-Vy-laiase  forming  part  of  the 
Bonnet  cTEvSquey  when  the  latter  has  disappeared,  shut 

*  **  Some  people  hare  come  to  such  a  pitch  of  Inxury,  that  they 
would  accept  for  their  own  eating  only  one  part  of  a  bird.  Thus 
Capitolinus  called  the  Emperor  Fertinax  illiberal,  because  he  some- 
times sent  to  his  friends  the  loins  of  fowls  ;  but  perhaps  u^justlj— 
for  I  should  rather  believe  he  did  it  to  gratify  their  palates.  Although 
there  is  but  little  flesh  on  the  back,  yet  the  skin  itself,  and  especially 
in  a  well-fed  hen,  is  fat,  and  a  first-rate  delicacy.  So  that  Matron  in 
Athensus  speaks  of 

'  ftttted  hens  in  silver  dishes, 
Unfeathered,  of  like  age,  with  backs  like  pancakes* — 

that  is,  as  I  expound  it,  with  nice  backs  {dorgo  grataa),  not  with 
reddish  backs,  as  some  interpret;  since  a  pancake  is  not  reddish,  but 
whitiBhJ'^'Aldrovandi'a  Omithdogia :  De  Qallo  Gallinaceo. 


POtTLTBT  AND  GAMB.  475 

up  in  the  lufftA^  some  slj  gaest  will  search  perseyeringly 
in  the  dish  of  what  is  left — in  vain.  "  What  are  yon 
looking  for?''  asks  the  host;  ^^what  shall  I  help  you 
to?"  "Oh,  nothing  of  the  least  consequence,"  replies 
the  innocent  wag.  "  I  was  only  looking  for  a  Sot- 
Py^laisse^  my  favourite  morsel ;  but  they  have  both 
been  eaten."  Whereupon,  the  sorely  vexed  host  is 
obliged,  in  common  politeness,  to  send  for  the  Bishop's 
Cap  back  again,  and, — ^unless  the  other  relents  in  his 
longing, — to  his  shame  and  sorrow,  cut  it  up. 

French  cooks,  in  like  manner,  divide  a  Hare  into 
two  portions ;  the  fore  quarters  and  the  hind  quarters. 
This  division  has  the  convenience  of  furnishing  two 
quite  distinct  and  different  dishes  at  the  Jirst  dressing. 
Of  the  hind  quarters,  called  the  RdbUj  and  consisting  of 
the  two  legs  and  the  loins  with  the  kidneys  attaehed,  is 
made  Roast  Hare*  From  the  fore  part  (the  head,  fore 
legs,  neck,  chest,  liver,  heart,  &c.),  they  obtain  the  very 
popular  and  useful  dish,  known  as  Civet  de  lAhre. 

But  far  better  than  this  penurious  kidnapping  of 
innocent  joints  of  turkey  (which  want  nothing  better 
than  to  be  relished  and  enjoyed  on  the  spot)  is  it  to  let 
the  friends  admitted  to  your  table  partake  unrestrained 
of  oU  the  goods  the  gods  provide  them ;  and  therij  if 
any  thing  is  left,  to  serve  it  without  fuss  in  the  shape 
of 

Hashed  Turkey.     Out  the  remnants  of  Turkey  into 
convenient  pieces,  smallish  rather  than  largish ;  reject, 
the  upper  warty  part  of  the  neck  and  the  head — from 
which,  however,  you  may  take  the  brains.     Boll  the 


476  POULTBY  AND  GAME. 

oat-np  pieces  of  turkey  in  floor,  and  dust  them  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

Take  what  cold  roast-turkey  gravy  you  have  left, 
provided  it  be  perfectly  dean,  and  free  from  smoky 
flavour  and  bits  of  cinder  tiiat  may  have  Men  into  the 
latch-pan.  If  not  suitable,  take  butter.  Put  it  into  a 
stew-pan  ;  melt  it  over  the  fire,  and  in  it  half-fry  sliced 
onions  to  a  nice  light  brown.  Add  a  dessert-spoonftd  of 
flour,  brown  it,  and  stir  in  gradually  a  pint  of  brotL 
Put  in  your  bits  of  turkey ;  cover  closely  with  the  lid 
of  the  stew-pan,  and  let  them  simmer  gently  for  an 
hour,  so  that  the  turkey  is  thoroughly  saturated  with 
the  sauce  and  its  vapour.  Put  in  the  remnants  of  stuff- 
ing to  warm. 

Take  up  your  hashed  turkey  bit  by  bit  with  a  spoon, 
and  arrange  it  neatly  on  a  hot  dish.  To  the  sauce  in 
the  stew-pan  add  a  dessert-spoonftd  of  mushroom  ketchup, 
the  same  of  pickled-walnut  vinegar  (or  half  a  pickled 
walnut  crushed  in  a  teacup),  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  a 
small  pinch  of  cayenne  (if  approved),  and  half  a  tea- 
cupftil  of  pickled  mushrooms  (if  you  have  them).  Soil 
up,  stirring  meanwhile,  to  prevent  burning  and  keep  all 
smooth,  and  pour  it  over  the  turkey  on  the  dish. 

You  may  garnish  with  toasted  bread  and  slices  of 
lemon ;  also  with  forcemeat  balls,  if  little  or  no  stuflSng 
remained  in  the  cold  turkey. 

Civet  de  Lihre — Stewed  Hare  (French).  "  A  civet 
without  hare,''  is  equivalent  to  our  expression  of,  ^^  Your 
dinner  without  your  victuals.''  Therefore,  get  a  hare, — 
a  nice,  fresh-slain,  three-quarters-grown  one,  if  you  can. 


POULTBT  AND  GAMB.  477 

Skin  and  empty  it,  saving  all  the  blood  in  a  basin* 
Cut  it  into  joints  and  half-joints. 

Melt  in  yonr  stew-pan  a  good  lump  of  butter ;  add  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  cut  into  dice ;  do  them  to  a 
light  brown;  mix  in  gradually  two  teaspoonfols  of  flow:; 
stir  well.  When  all  is  brown,  and  the  nmx  is  made,  add 
j»iz  smaU  onions  whole.  When  the  onions  are  cooked, 
put  in  your  hare ;  brown  it  outside,  as  if  you  were  fiying 
it  Add  a  pint  of  water  (broth  or  stock,  if  you  have  it), 
half  a  pint  of  red  vin  ordinaire  or  claret  (a  less  quantity 
of  port  will  suffice),  and  the  bouquet  of  parsley,  thyme, 
and  bay-leaf. 

Stew  it  smartly  for  an  hour— longer,  if  ilie  hare  is 
an  old  one.  When  it  is  nearly  enough,  add  the  blood, 
another  glass  of  wine,  pepper  and  salt     Serve  hot 

Civet  de  Lapin — Stewed  Rcibit — is  done  in  exactly 
the  same  way,  but  takes  less  time  to  cook,  that  time 
depending  on  the  age  of  the  rabbit 

Soning  a  hare,  and  roasting  or  stewing  it  rolled,  is 
a  feat  which  is  performed  rather  for  the  glorification  of 
the  cook,  and  the  convenience  of  the  carver,  than  for 
the  gratification  of  the  parties  who  are  to  partake  of  it 
^^The  nearer  the  bone,  the  sweeter  the  flesh,''  as  the 
man  said  in  excuse  of  his  choice  of  a  scraggy  wife ;  and 
where  all  the  bone  is  taken  away,  there  is  sure  to  be  a 
considerable  loss  of  sweetness.  The  same  is  true,  more 
or  less,  of  all  boned  meats, — ^boned  shoulder  of  mutton„ 
rolled  ribs  of  beef,  boned  turkey,  and,  of  all  things  in 
the  world,  boned  whole  Iambi  They  form  irregulai' 
cylinders  of  meat,  which  are  easy  to  slice  when  hot,  and 


478  POULTRY  AKB  OAKS. 

easily  kept  hot,  and  are  quite  presentable  when  cold ;  but 
the  true  and  rational  epicore  (bj  which  is  implied  a  term 
of  praise,  and  not  of  blame),  who  prefers  genuine  and 
-natm:^  flavour  to  unnecessary  manipulation  of  the  meat 
he  eats,  will  leave  them  to  those  who  take  pleasure  in 
over-artificial'  devices.  The  real  object  of  cookery,  we 
hold,  is  to  improve  indifferent  and  inferior  articles,  and 
not  to  render  good  articles  of  food  less  pleasing  to  the 
palate  than  they  would  have  been  if  dressed  by  more 
simple  methods. 

There  is  no  comparison  between  French  Boast  Rdble 
and  English  Bocut  Hare, — the  latter  being  altogether 
superior.  A  nice  young  hare,  not  quite  full-grown,  with 
its  inside  lined  with  a  few  slices  of  delicate  white  bacon, 
and  then  completely  filled  with  extra-aromatic  and  rich 
veal  stu£Sng ;  with  its  limbs  trussed  close  to  its  body, 
and  firmly  tied  in  their  places  with  string;  its  throat 
cut,  to  let  out  any  undue  congestion  of  blood;  basted 
with  milk  during  the  first  period  of  its  roasting;  then 
dredged  with  flour,  and  finished  off  with  butter ;  sent  up 
smoking,  with  currant  jelly  and  onion  sauce  in  humble 
attendance, — such  a  hare,  for  succulence,  flavour,  and 
digestibility,  is  worth  whole  ovens-fiill  of  dried-up^ 
unstuffed,  unsupported  rdUes.  It  is  even  better,  hashed, 
at  its  second  appearance,  than  the  other  is^at  its  first 

An  old  hare  is  only  good  for  Soup  (p.  149) ;  or  to 
be  made  entirely  into  a  Civet ;  or  to  become 

Jugged  Hare,  very  light  and  digestible;  and  con- 
venient, on  account  of  being  just  as  good  warmed  up  as 
at  its  first  serving. 


POXTLTRT  AND  GAME.  479 

Cut  up  your  Hare  into  joints  and  half-joints,  as  for 
a  stew.     Procure  a  pound  of  rump-steak,  with  its  fair 
proportion  of  fat ;  cut  it  into  pieces  not  more  than  an 
inch  and  a  half  squara     Mix  them  with  the  cut-up* 
hare,  and  season  all  with  pepper  and  salt 

Take  a  tall,  upright  earthen  jug,  pot,  or  jar,  with 
a  cover  fitting  to  the  top.  Take  care  that  its  inside  is 
well  rinsed,  and  free  from  all  dust  or  mouldy  smell* 
At  the  bottom  put  a  few  of  the  fiittost  pieces  of  beef,  and 
over  those  some  of  the  hare ;  then  fill  the  jug  with  the 
rest,  mixing  with  them,  at  pretty  equal  distances,  the 
peel  of  half  a  lemon,  six  or  eight  whole  onions,  a  tea- 
spoonfril  of  peppercorns,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
half  a  dozen  cloves,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  thyme  and 
parsley ;  a  couple  of  bay-leaves,  also,  if  approved. 

Throw  in  a  table-spoonful  of  mushroom  ketchup,  and 
a  breakfast-cupfril  of  wat^  (in  default  of  good  beef  oi 
veal  stock),  and  put  on  the  cover  of  the  jug.  Then  set 
it  in  a  large  boiler  or  small  copper  of  hot  water,  of  such 
a  depth  that  it  (the  water)  shall  not  reach  the  top  of  the 
jug  nor  enter  it  Let  the  jug  boil  in  this  way  (replacing 
the  water  in  the  boiler  as  it  flies  off  in  steam)  for  four, 
five,  or  six  hours,  till  the  hare  is  tender.  It  takes  long 
cooking ;  for,  in  fact,  the  hare  is  reaUy  stewed  in  a  bain- 
marie,  or  hot-water  bath. 

Serve  in  its  own  juice  (which  should  be  dear  and 
thin ;  no  kind  of  thickening  is  to  be  added),  and  garnish 
round  with  forcemeat  balls. 

Babbit  may  be  Boasted  in  the  same  way  as  hare,  but 
is  di£Scnlt  to  keep  fi*om  drying  up,  unless  wrapped  in 


480  POULTBT  AND  OAXB. 

slioeB  of  baoon,  or  protected  hy  oiled  paper.  Dressed  in 
either  of  the  three  following  ways,  rabbit  retains  its 
jnioes  better. 

Babbit  en  Qtbehtte^  Frieaaseed.  Brown  small  baoon- 
dice  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  good  lump  of  butter ;  take 
them  out  of  the  stew-pan,  and  put  jour  rabbit  in« 
Brown  it  nicely  all  over,  as  far  as  you  can,  and  then  put 
back  to  it  the  litde  bits  of  bacon.  Throw  in  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  flour;  moisten  gradually  with  broth  and 
white  wine ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bouquet  com«* 
plete ;  add  small  onions  and  button  mushrooms.  Serre 
with  fried  or  toasted  bread  laid  as  garnishing  around  the 

HabbU  h  la  Jardiniire^  Cut  np  your  rabbit  into 
joints ;  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  sliced  onions,  carrots, 
turnips,  potatoes,  green  peas,  celery,  bouquet  complete, 
pepper  and  salt.  Pour  in  water  or  broth  enough  to 
cover  all ;  stew,  with  the  lid  close  down,  till  the  rabbit 
is  tender. 

Fry  a  few  slices  of  white  bacon  in  a  frying-pan. 
Lay  them  on  a  hot  dish  alternately  with  joints  of  stewed 
rabbit  Squeeze  the  vegetables  to  a  pur6e  through  a 
cullender ;  beat  up  the  pur^  again,  and  pour  it  over  the 
rabbit.  Or,  which  many  will  prefer,  serve  the  mixed 
vegetables  as  they  are,  round,  or  in  the  middle  of,  the 
rabbit  and  bacon. 

.    jRoUed  Babbit.    Bone  a  rabbit,  tearing  the  flesh  as 
little  as  possible. 

Make  a  forcemeat  with  the  livers  of  chicken,  ducks, 
or  geese,  the  rabbit's  liver  and  heart,  bacon  chopped 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  481 

fine,  mushrooms  the  same,  P^PP^^y  ^^^9  ^^d  grated 
nutmeg.  Bind  these  together  with  a  very  few  bread- 
crumbs  and  a  beat-np  egg. 

Spread  your  rabbit-flesh  on  the  table ;  cover  it  with 
this  stuffing ;  roll  it  together ;  give  it  a  few  stitches  with 
a  needle  and  thread,  to  prevent  any  of  the  forcemeat 
from  escaping ;  wrap  in  a  strong,  untom  piece  of  pork, 
lamb,  or  veal  leaf-fat ;  twist  tape  once  or  twice  round  it^ 
to  keep  all  tight ;  stew  it,  closely  covered  with  the  lid^ 
in  broth,  with  a  glass  of  good  white  wine  in  it. 

When  done,  remove  the  tape  and  the  leaf-fat  Skim 
the  fat  off  the  liquor,  season  it  to  taste,  thicken  with  a 
little  arrowroot,  and  pour  hot  over  the  rabbit. 

JRoast  Babbit.  A  genuine  Warren  receipt  [Dela- 
mer's  Pigeons  and  MabbUe.']  Make  a  forcemeat  of 
bread-crumbs,  minced  beef-suet,  lemon-peel,  grated 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  lemon-thyme,  if 
sweet  herbs  are  approved.  Beat  up  two  eggs,  and  mix 
with  them  the  whole  into  a  paste.  Put  this  forcemeat 
inside  the  rabbit,  sew  it  up,  and  skewer  it  into  the 
proper  form.  Bub  the  outside  of  the  rabbit  over  with 
butter ;  flour  it  a  little ;  and  stick  on  very  thin  slices  of 
bacon  by  means  of  smaU  skewers  of  iron-wire.  A 
French  cook  would  lard  the  back  of  the  rabbit  with 
a  larding-needle.  These  slices  of  bacon  will  roast  up^ 
till  they  are  become  quite  crisp  and  dry;  the  fat  which 
oozes  from  them  will  keep  the  rabbit  Imoist  and  juicy. 
Still,  it  ought  to  be  well  basted  while  roasting. 

Make  a  gravy  with  a  small  piece  of  beef  (or  the  livers 
of  the  rabbits,  if  they  are  not  roasted  inside),  a  whole 

II 


482  POULTBY  Ain>  GAME. 

onion,  some  whole  peppercorns,  a  blade  of  mace^  a  cloye 
or  two,  and  a  small  crust  of  bread  toasted  very  dry  and 
brown,  but  not  burnt.  When  the  gravy  is  boiled  enough^ 
strain  it,  and  then  add  a  little  ketchup  and  flour  well 
braided  together.  Make  the  grKvjJust  boil  up  (not  for 
a  minute  or  two),  before  serving  with  the  roast  rabbit  in 
a  separate  tureen  by  itself.  Some  add  a  glass  of  port 
wine  to  the  gravy. 

RcdibUPati.  (Idem.)  A  veiy  useful  standing  dish  for 
reference ;  may  be  had  of  any  size— the  larger  the  better. 

Have  ready  your  rabbits,  skinned  and  emptied ;  cut 
them  into  joints;  have  also  an  earthen  or  stoneware- 
pat^-dish,  with  a  close-fitting  cover.  This  kind  of  patS 
is  made  without  any  crust.  At  the  bottom  of  the  dish 
lay  slices  of  bacon,  and  over  that  a  layer  of  minced  meat 
of  any  kind  you  happen  to  have  at  hand,  mixed  with 
chopped  parsley,  chives,  a  large  clove  of  garlic,  mush- 
rooms, and  pepper.  Upon  this  bed  lay  the  whole  of 
your  rabbits,  as  closely  as  you  can  pack  the  pieces, 
and  then,  the  remainder  of  your  mincemeat,  and  some 
more  slices  of  bacon  to  cover  the  whole.  Shake  it  well 
together,  to  settle  the  meat  in  its  place.  Throw  in  a 
glass  or  two  of  white  wine ;  put  the  cover  on  the  dish^ 
lute  it  down  with  paste,  and  set  it  in  a  slow  oven  until 
enough.  It  must  not  be  touched,  to  be  eaten,  till  it  is 
cold. 

Roast  Fowl  and  Water^creBBBs.  The  excellence  of 
this  simple  dish  must  be  our  excuse  for  noting  it,  rather 
as  a  refresher  to  the  plain  cook's  memory,  than  as  a 
receipt  for  her  direction. 


POULTBY  AND  GAME.  483 

The  Fowl  (whether  pullet,  cockerel,  or  capon)  mnst 
be  quite  young,  and  as  fat  (natnrall  j)  as  may  be.  These 
conditions  are  difficult  to  combine,  because  growing  birds 
seldom  make  much  fat  If  lean,  a  very  thin  slice  of  the 
whitest  bacon,  laid  oyer  the  breast,  must  remedy  the 
defect.  Truss  the  legs  pheasant-fashion,  t.  e.  with  the 
shanks  left  on,  but  the  toes  chopped  off.  Tuck  his  head 
under  his  wing  (poor  thing  I),  after  the  proper  twist  of 
the  pinion ;  attach  the  liver  and  heart  to  one  wing,  and 
ihe  gizzard  (duly  cleaned  and  peeled)  to  the  other. 
Boast  the  dear  creature  with  the  utmost  care,  as  if  your 
life  (or  an  advance  of  wages)  depended  on  the  issue. 

You  have  now  to  combine  a  couple  of  contradictions 
— ^to  make  tragical  mirth  to  roar  an  it  were  a  sucking- 
dove,  to  produce  red-hot  snow,  to  ice  glowing  embers. 

Have  ready  a  lot  of  the  tenderest,  delicatest,  freshest 
of  water-cresses,  crisp,  and  ftiU  of  sap,  and  yet  with 
every  leaflet  dry.  Not  a  dew-drop  of  moisture  should 
adhere  to  them.  This  result  is  obtainable  (aft;er  the 
careftdlest  of  picking,  and  reiterated  washings)  by  first 
swinging  them  in  a  salad-basket  till  your  arm  is  tired 
of  playing  pendulum,  and  then  suspending  them  till 
wanted  in  a  coarse  dry  napkin  tied  by  the  four  comers: 
it  would  be  an  insult  to  you  to  say,  ^^  a  clean  dry 
napkin." 

When  the  critical  moment  arrives,  and  the  fowl  is 
done, — ^frt)thed,  browned,  and  steaming,— on  a  cold  dish 
lay  plenty  of  watercresses,  so  as  to  form  a  green,  elastic 
bed;  on  this  bed  drop  your  foaming  fowl;  send  it  to 
table  instantly ;  and  if  a  bone  of  it  comes  away  tmpioked, 


484  POULTBT  AM)  GAME. 

you  will  be  excusable  if  you  set  to  work  to  pick  it  jonr- 
self. 

No  sauce,  besides  its  own  gravy,  is  needed  with  this 
princely  piece  of  incongruity;  which  was  one  of  the  few 
ornaments  of  Louis  XIY.'s  CJourt  never  regarded  by 
rivals  with  a  jealous  eye. 

Broiled  Fowly  or  Spread  Eagle.  At  a  quiet  repast, 
you  may  be  content  with  Broiled  Fowl ;  on  a  state 
occasion,  you  must  have  Spread  Eagle,  and  two  of  them, 
if  only  to  display  the  double  head  and  necL  For  the 
former,  you  may  cut  off  the  neck  an  inch  above  its 
junction  with  the  body,  and  remove  the  shanks  entirely ; 
for  the  latter,  you  must  retain  neck,  head,  and  all,  and 
leave  the  legs  pheasant-length. 

Broiled  Fowl  is  the  very  dish  for  a  pleasant  supper, 
in  company  with  some  beloved  object 

«  And  when  the  long  hours  of  the  public  are  past, 
Hay  we  meet  with  champagne  and  a  chicken  at  last !" 

could  refer  to  no  other  than  Chicken  Broiled.  It  is,  in 
its  very  essence,  an  intimate  dish,  a  confidential  dainty, 
a  private  treat. 

Binge  your  fowl,  empty  it,  decapitate  the  head  and 
neck,  amputate  the  shanks.  Split  it  open  down  the 
back,  from  the  insertion  of  the  neck  to  the  rump.  Lay 
it  open,  press  it  flat,  and  keep  it  fiat  with  the  aid  of 
skewers  and  string. 

When  nicely  arranged,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan  with 
just  enough  water  to  cover  it,  and  a  teaspoonfiil  of  salt 
Put  in  also  the  head  and  neck  cut  into  three  or  four 
pieces,  the  gizzard,  heart,  liver,  and  the  two  white 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  485 

kidneys,  if  any.  Let  these  boil  gently  until  the  fowl  is 
cooked,  but  slightly  under-done.  Take  it  out  and  set  it 
aside  to  cool ;  it  may  be  kept  in  that  state  till  next  day, 
or  whenever  wanted.  Take  out  also  the  liver  and 
kidneys,  cut  off  the  wattles  and  comb,  and  take  the 
brains  from  the  head;  put  them  aside.  Let  the  rest 
continue  to  boil,  to  make  the  heart  and  gizzard  quite 
tender,  and  extract  aU  the  goodness  from  the  head  and 
neck. 

For  the  Satu^  to  Broiled  Fowl :  Fry  sliced  onions,  in 
a  stew-pan,  in  butter ;  add  a  little  flour ;  moisten  with 
the  boilings  of  the  fowl,  stirring  to  keep  all  smooth ; 
remove  the  onions ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated 
nutmeg.  When  that  is  done,  and  you  have  obtained  a 
creamy,  thick,  brown  sauce,  throw  into  it  the  fowl's 
comb  and  wattles,  the  kidneys,  the  liver  cut  in  two,  the 
gizzard  cut  into  four,  the  brains,  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
pickled  mushrooms,  and  one  dessert-spoonful  of  the 
vinegar  from  them :  the  mushrooms  are  indispensable. 
Keep  your  sauce  hot  in  a  bain-marie  till  wanted. 

Smear  the  upper  surface  of  your  opened  and  cold 
boiled  fowl  with  oiled  butter;  broil  it,  presenting  the 
under  side  first  to  the  fire.  When  thoroughly  hot 
through,  turn  it  on  the  gridiron  to  brown  the  upper 
surface.  When  nicely  done,  lay  it  on  your  dish,  remove 
the  skewers,  and  pour  over  it  the  hot  sauce  with  all  its 
contents. 

Boast  Duck  is  one  of  the  simplest  things  to  cook,  and 
yet  it  is  not  always  done  well,  for  want  of  attention  to 
the  important  point,  namely,  basting  it  continually  from 


486  POULTBY  AJH)  GAME. 

the  moment  of  putting  it  down  to  tilie  fire  mitil  it  is 
done. 

The  Duck  is  trussed  like  the  Goose ;  cut  off  the 
pinion-joint  of  the  wing,  the  feet,  and  the  head  and 
neck ;  these,  together  with  the  heart,  liver,  and  gizzard, 
will  form  Duck^s  Giblets^  useful  for  soup,  stews,  or  pies, 
and  sold,  like  Goose  Giblets,  in  some  provincial  markets, 
by  themselves,  without  the  bird  firom  which  thej  were 
taken,  at  so  much  per  set  of  giblets. 

If  you  do  not  make  giblets,  you  may  leave  the  feet 
on  (tucking  them  against  the  duck's  back  after  cutting 
off  the  claws),  and  put  the  liver  inside,  with  the  stuffing. 
The  other  portions  you  can  boil  down  for  gravy  or 
stock. 

For  the  Stuffing  j  take  onions  enough  to  fill  the  duck's 
inside;  chop  them  up  with  a  good  quantity  of  sage- 
leaves,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  For  those 
who  do  not  like  duck-stuffing  too  strong,  its  flavour  may 
be  moderated  by  using  a  smaller  quantity  of  sage  and 
onions,  and  making  up  for  the  deficiency  by  an  admix- 
ture of  bread-crumbs.  It  is  not  usual  to  bind  this 
latter  stuffing  with  beat-up  egg,  though  there  is  no 
reason  why  it  should  not  be  employed.  Indeed,  in  that 
way,  a  delicate  stuffing  can  be  made,  with  only  a  slight 
trace  of  sage  and  onions — -just  enough  to  relieve  it  fi*om 
insipidity. 

When  your  duck  is  stuffed,  tie  it  round  with  string 
above  and  below,  to  keep  the  legs  and  wings  in  their 
places  close  to  the  body,  and  the  stuffing  in.  You  may 
let  it  warm  through,  lying  in  the  latch-pan,  and  basting 


POULTBY  AND  QAME.  487 

it  with  a  little  broth.  Begin  to  roast  at  a  moderate 
^stance  from  the  fire ;  dredge  with  flour ;  then  bring 
it  nearer  to  the  fire,  to  brown  and  finish  off,  basting 
incessantly  all  the  while. 

Dnok  roasted  in  a  cooking-stove,  or  baked^  is  often 
a  failure,  for  want  of  this  continually  basting,  and  in 
•consequence  of  the  dry  Iieat  of  the  oven.  The  skin  of 
^  roast  water-fowl  must  be  kept  moist  with  its  own 
^ravy,  which  will  render  it  tender  and  succulent ;  dried 
up  and  parched,  it  acquires  an  oily  flavour  and  a 
leathery  consistency  which  are  any  thing  but  agreeable. 
Boast  Duck  should  not  be  over-done. 

If  the  cook  cannot  conveniently  roast  her  duck  before 
the  fire,  roasting  it  in  a  stew-pan  (as  directed  for  Leg  of 
Lamb,  p.  372)  is  far  better  than  doing  it  in  an  oven. 
TThe  following  are  approved  ways  of  varying  this  mode 
of  cooking.  Ducks  saut^  in  a  stew-pan  are  not  usually 
stuffed. 

Ducky  stewed  with  Green  Pease.  After  trussing  your 
duck,  put  it  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  good  lump  of  butter, 
over  a  brisk  fire.  Keep  turning  it  till  it  is  nicely  brown 
all  over.  Take  it  out  for  a  few  minutes,  and  lay  it  on  a 
^islu 

Then  make  a  roux,  by  browning  a  dessert-spoonfid 
of  flour  in  your  stew-pan ;  stir  in  some  stock ;  and  when 
it  is  smooth,  replace  the  duck ;  add  a  quart  of  green 
pease,  with  some  sprigs  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  sage. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  slowly  over  a 
^nde  fire.  Serve  the  pease  round  the  duck  on  the  same 
•dish. 


488  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

Ducky  toith  Turnips.  Nearly  the  same  as  the  pre- 
ceding.  After  emptying,  singeing,  and  trussing  yoor 
duck;  with  its  feet  tucked  behind  it,  make  a  roux,  and 
in  it  brown  your  duck  ;  then  stir  in  a  couple  of  ladle- 
fuls  of  good  broth.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  bay- 
leaf.  Keep  turning  your  duck  till  the  liquor  in  which 
it  is  stewing  boils ;  then  put  in  a  bunch  of  parsley  and 
chives  or  spring  onions. 

In  another  frying-pan  or  stew-pan,  toss  up  in  butter 
some  turnips  cut  into  handsome  slices,  until  they  are 
fined  to  a  bright  light  brown ;  let  the  grease  drain  away 
from  them,  and  put  them  to  the  duck  when  it  is  three- 
parts  cooked.  Then  stew  slowly  till  it  is  done  enough. 
Serve  your  duck  surrounded  with  the  turnips.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  arrowroot  or  flour;  season  more  highly, 
if  required ;  boil  up,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  ducL 
If  you  want  to  make  this  dish  still  more  showy  (espe- 
cially when  you  have  a  couple  of  ducks),  boil  sliced 
turnips  till  they  are  quite  tender;  drain  them;  mash 
them  in  a  basin  (not  in  a  cullender),  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  a  heaped  teaspoonful  of  powdered  lump-sugar, 
and  a  coffee-cupfiil  of  rich  white  cream.  When  well 
mixed,  return  them  to  the  saucepan,  heat  up,  and 
thicken  by  evaporation,  stirring  all  the  while. 

On  serving,  spread  this  white  pur^  over  the  bottom 
of  your  dish ;  on  it  lay  the  well-browned  ducks,  and 
round  them  the  browned  slices  of  fried  turnip. 

Ducky  tcith  Olives.  Prepare  your  duck  as  before, 
trussing  it  to  be  as  round  and  plump  as  possible.  Bub 
it  all  over  with  lemon-juice ;  brown  it  with  butter  in  a 


POULTRY  AND  GAME^  489 

stew-pan ;  when  coloured,  throw  in  a  dessert-spoonfiil 
of  flour ;  continue  browning,  and  stir  in  a  couple  of 
ladleftds  of  soup. 

Eemove  the  kernels  (by  peeling  them  thick)  from  as 
many  pickled  olives  as  will  be  eaten ;  scald  them  in  no 
more  boiling  water  than  will  cover  them.  When  tlie 
duck  is  almost  cooked,  put  them  to  it.  When  done, 
put  the  duck  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  serve  the  olives 
round  it,  and  pour  the  sauce  over  all. 

Olives  are  neither  digestible  nor  nutritious;  weak 
stomachs  will  set  them  down  at  what  they  are  worth — 
things  to  beguile  the  masticating  organs — and  princi- 
pally bestow  their  favourable  notice  on  the  duck  itself 
and  its  gravy. 

WUd  Ducky  Widgeon^  Tecd^  Dun  Birds ^  8fc,  Sfc,^  are 
simply  roasted,  vnthout  9caj  stuffing.  They  may  be 
accompanied  by  a  good  brown  gc^Yj  (or  rather  sauce) 
made  with  their  own  gravy  thickened  in  a  stew-pan, 
and  seasoned  with  ketchup,  red  wine,  cayenne,  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  or  other  condiments ;  but  they  are  as  often 
eaten  with  no  other  zest  than  lemon-juice  and  cayenne. 
Sometimes,  indeed,  the  carver  renders  them  uneatable 
by  slicing  the  breast  and  devilling  it  with  cayenne,  till 
it  is  as  hot  as — a  heat  which  ears  polite  may  never  hear 
mentioned.  If  a  whole  party  is  agreed  in  liking  this 
strange  abuse  of  fiery  ingredient,  all  well  and  good;  but 
if  only  a  single  vote  is  doubtful,  and  two  wild  ducks  are 
served,  the  carver  may  then  devil  one  of  them,  and  that 
on  a  separate  dish.  Wild  Fowl  bear  over-roasting 
even  worse  than  Tame  Duck. 


490  POULTBT  AND  GAME. 

Wild  Fowl  are  excellent  either  Baked  in  a  Pie  or 
Boiled  in  a  Pudding.  See  Snipe  Padding  (p.  448), 
Plovers  and  Lapwing  are  capital  for  this  latter  purpose. 
The  old  French  proverb  says  : 

**  Qui  n'a  point  mange  Yannean^ 
N'a  point  mange  bon  morceau"— 

^^  He  who  has  not  eaten  lapwing  has  missed  a  tit-bit." 

Roast  Goose.  Green^  or  Youthful,  Goose^  killed  at 
any  time  before,  say,  the  close  of  August,  is  much  more 
^gestible  than  after  the  bird  has  completed  its  growth 
and  education;  what  it  gains  then  in  solidity  and 
savouriness,  it  loses  in  lightness.  Still,  Green  Goose 
should  not  be  snatched  away  from  its  honoured  parents 
in  too  immature  a  state ;  as  it  is  apt  in  that  case  to  turn 
out  a  mere  lump  of  flabbiness,  fat,  and  gristle.  But 
taken  at  the  right  point  of  adolescence,  trussed,  stuffed, 
and  roasted  exactly  like  Duck,  and  accompanied  by 
plenty  of  young  green  pease,  it  is  a  dish  to  set  before— 
no  matter  whom.  Goose  requires  the  same  precautions 
as  Duck  in  respect  to  basting ;  and  may  bask  a  con- 
siderable time  in  the  latch-pan,  with  repeated  turnings, 
before  being  suspended  in  front  of  the  fire. 

Goose  is  trussed  exactly  like  Duck,  only  the  feet  are 
never  left  on,  but  go  with  the  giblets,  which  become  a 
matter  of  consideration  in  a  bird  of  this  size.  They  con- 
sist of  the  head,  neck,  pinions,  feet,  heart,  liver,  and 
gizzard. 

Full-grown  Goose  is  commonly  stuffed  like  Duck ; 
but  it  differs  from  its  smaller  cousin  in  being  entitled 
io  the  honours  of  Apple  Sauce.    In  that  case,  it  may  be 


POULTBY  AND  QA1£E.  491 

basted,  at  the  outset,  with  a  teacupful  of  eider ;  then, 
when  it  begins  to  warm,  dredged  with  flour ;  afterwards 
basted  with  its  own  fat  and  gravj-,  mixing  with  the  eider. 
The  roasting  of  a  fidl-grown  goose  takes  at  least  a 
couple  of  hours ;  and  the  nearer  it  draws  to  a  close,  the 
more  assiduous  must  be  the  basting ;  the  fatter  the  goose, 
the  more  liberal  may  be  the  dredging  with  flour. 

A  French  Stuffing  for  Roast  Goose,  Boast  a  hundred 
chestnuts,  without  burning  them.  Peel  them  carefully. 
Chop  up  half  the  quantity,  and  put  tliem  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  pound  of  sausage«meat,  a  lump  of  butter,  the 
gooseys  liver  chopped,  and  parsley,  chives,  shallots,  and 
a  clove  of  garlic,  all  chopped.  Heat  them  up,  all 
together,  over  the  fire  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  When 
your  goose  is  singed  and  ready,  fill  it  with  this  stuffing, 
and  stitch  up  the  flap  of  the  belly  to  keep  it  in. 

Prepare  the  remainder  of  the  chestnuts  in  the  follow- 
ing way,  to  accompany  the  goose :  Put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  couple  of  spoonfuls  of 
good  stock,  and  a  little  salt.  Stew  the  chestnuts  in  this 
liquor  until  it  begins  to  reduce  and  thicken,  and  then 
serve  them  round  the  roast  goose. 

Goose  en  Davbej  Stewed^  A,  to  be  eaten  cold.  You 
will  destine  to  this  mode  of  embalming  a  bird  which  has 
attained  a  certain  age,  and  is  no  longer  tender  enough 
to  roast  After  emptying  and  singeing,  truss  ba  for 
roasting.  Take  an  oval  or  oblong  boiler  just  big  enough 
to  hold  the  goose.  At  the  bottom  lay  a  few  slices  of 
bacon  and  veal ;  on  these  lay  the  goose,  and  cover  its 
breast  with  thin  slices  of  bacon.     Bound  it  put  parsley, 


492  POULTBT  AND  GAME. 

chires,  three  or  four  shaUots,  half  a  dove  of  garlic, 
thyme,  bay-leaf,  aud  basil,  all  chopped  together;  salt, 
whole  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Over  these  throw 
a  quart  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  wine,  and  a  dram-glass 
of  brandy.  Cover  the  pot  close  with  its  lid,  luting  it 
down  with  paste,  and  let  it  stew  i^eTy  slowly,  over  a 
very  gentle  fire,  for  five  or  six  hours ;  or  you  may  set 
it  for  that  time  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

When  the  goose  is  cooked,  put  it  into  a  deep  dish. 
Skim  the  fat  off  the  liquor,  and  pour  it  over  tlie  goose, 
supposing  it  to  bo  stiffenoughto  jelly  when  cold;  if  not, 
you  must  reduce  it  to  that  consistency  by  boiling  down; 

Goae  en,  Dauhe,  Stewed^  B.  Cover  the  bottom  of 
your  oval  boiler  with  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  lay  your 
goose  (or  turkey,  or  large  old  cock)  upon  them.  Sur- 
round it  with  a  calPs  foot  cut  in  pieces,  bouquet  com- 
plete, cloves,  onions,  sliced  carrots,  pepper,  salt,  and 
blades  of  mace. 

Pour  over  it  a  dram-glass  of  brandy,  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  a  pint  of  stock,  and  the  same  of  water.  Close 
the  lid  hermetically,  and  stew  or  bake  slowly,  as  before, 
for  five  or  six  hours. 

This  may  be  either  eaten  hot,  with  its  accompani- 
ments ;  or  cold,  with  the  gravy  about  it,  in  the  shape  of 

jelly. 

Either  of  these  Davbes  will  be  found  acceptable  at 
breakfast,  luncheon,  and  pic-nic  parties,  and  deserve  to 
be  more  generally  known  in  England :  for  what  better 
can  you  do  with  an  aged  Goose  or  Gander  ? 

Giblet  Pie.    Prepare  the  Giblets  thus :  After  carefiilly 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  493 

placking  and  Bingeing  those  which  are  covered  with  skin, 
cut  off  the  beak,  take  out  the  eyes,  and  split  the  head  in 
two ;  cut  the  neck  into  not  less  than  three  lengths ; 
chop  the  pinions,  across,  in  two ;  skin  the  feet  (bj  scald- 
ing), and  cut  off  the  claws ;  cut  the  heart  in  two ;  the 
gizzard  (which  is  double),  after  skinning  and  cleaning, 
into  four ;  leave  the  liver  as  it  is. 

Binse  these  well  in  salt-and-water ;  then  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan  with  half  a  pound  of  rump-steak  cut  into 
dice,  and  as  much  good  stock  as  will  cover  them ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stew  till  nearly  tender.  At 
this  point,  taste  if  the  seasoning  is  sufficient  Transfer 
the  giblets,  with  their  gravy,  to  the  pie-dish,  and  set  them 
aside. 

When  wanted,  cover  them  with  the  crust,  and  bake. 

Goose  Giblets  help  a  soup,  or  make  a  stew,  both 
which  are  wholesome  and  agreeable.  The  gizzard  takes 
so  much  longer  than  the  other  components  to  cook,  that 
it  ought  to  be  boiled  separately  beforehand. 

The  best  giblets  are  Swan  {ue.  Cygnet)  Giblets; 
but  they  do  not  fall  to  eveiy  body^s  lot. 

The  poor  Goose  is  very  unjustly  regarded  in  England 
as  an  emblem  of  stupidity.  Give  a  dog  a  bad  name, 
and  hang  him; — give  a  goose  a  bad  name,  and  roast 
him.  It  is  an  excuse  for  eating  him  without  qualms  of 
conscience.  ^^  Stupid  as  a  goose,''  is  an  erroneous 
comparison;  for  the  goose  has  intelligence,  affection^ 
fidelity,  and  a  host  of  virtues  which  shall  not  be  enu- 
merated, for  fear  of  taking  away  the  reader's  appetite 
the  next  time  he  sits  down  to  our  fiiend  lying  in  state. 


494  POULTRY  AND  OAHE. 

Our  neighbours  put  the  dunce's  cap  on  a  head  which 
fits  it  better.  They  call  a  stupid  feUow,  not  a  goose,  but 
a  dindon — a  turkey.  French  literature  swarms  with 
examples.  Thus  :  "  Whoever  is  fond  of  turkey — and 
who  is  not  ?-— cannot  hate  the  Jesuits  ;  for,  it  is  said,  to 
those  worthy  Fathers — who  were  no  turkeys  themselves 
— ^we  owe  the  introduction  of  the  bird  to  France.  .  .  . 
The  turkey  must  be  kept  for  a  certain  time ;  but  as  it 
is  much  more  difficult  to  ^  mortify'  a  fool  than  a  clever 
man,  this  will  be  an  afiair  of  several  days,  depending  on 
the  temperature  of  the  atmosphere.  •  .  .  Turkey's  legs* 
may  be  eaten  a  la-  Sainte  MAiehauld.  It  is  said  they 
tend  to  cause  sleepiness — ^which  is  only  natural ;  for  one 
is  apt  to  fall  asleep  in  the  company  of  turkeys,"  &c.  &c» 

Roasted  Pheasant^  say  initiated  epicures,  is  an  am- 
brosial morsel,  which  ought  to  be  eaten  on  one's  knees ; 
the  paper  which  wraps  it  during  the  first  stage  of  roasting 
should  be  a  sheet  of  nothing  less  than  an  epic  poem. 
In  short,  it  is  one  of  the  things  about  which  people, 
otherwise  sober-minded,  occasionally  lose  their  senses. 

Young  pheasant,  fresh  killed,  is  not  particularly 
savoury :  neither  so  delicate  as  a  pullet,  nor  so  perfumed 
as  a  quail ;  old  pheasant  is  tough,  leathery,  and  dry. 
The  pheasant,  says  Brillat  Savarin,  is  an  enigma,  whoso 
solution  is  revealed  to  adepts  only. 

Every  alimentary  substance,  he  discourseth,  has  its 
apogee  of  esculence.  Some  substances  reach  that  turning- 
point  before  their  full  development:  examples — capera,. 
asparagus,  cauliflowers,  gray  partridges,  squab  pigeons, 
&0.     Others  reach  it  at  the  moment  when  they  have 


POULTBY  AlH)  GAME.  495 

attained  the  fall  perfection  of  which  their  organisation 
is  capable,  as  melons  and  the  generality  of  frtdts,  beef, 
mutton,  roe-deer,  and  red  partridges.  And,  lastly,  other 
things  arrive  at  their  edible  point  when  they  begin  ta 
decompose ;  instances  of  which  aro  medlars,  the  wood- 
cock, and,  above  all,  the  pheasant.  Taken  at  the  right 
moment,  its  flesh  is  tender,  high-flavoured,  sublime ;  it 
has  the  delicacy  of  poultry  and  the  aroma  of  venison. 
This  happy  moment  is  the  critical  point  when  the  de- 
composition of  the  bird  commences ;  so  much  so,  that  the 
French  have  invented  a  yerh^  faimndery  to  express  the 
act  of  keeping  meat  till  it  acquires  a  venison  taste 
There  are  various  rough  methods  of  doing  this  with 
pheasants ;  one  is,  to  hang  up  the  bird  by  the  tail,  and, 
when  it  falls  to  the  groimd,  to  pluck  and  roast  it; 
another  is,  to  hang  it  up  on  Shrove  Tuesday,  and  eat  it 
on  Easter  Sunday ;  another,  to  keep  it  as  long  as  an 
author,  who  has  never  flattered  any  body,  has  to  wait 
for  a  literary  pension.  But  this  last  period  might  be  too 
long,  even  for  pheasant. 

But  the  truth  is,  tastes  differ  in  this  respect,  some 
going  to  the  very  verge  of  insanity.  A  brace  of  phea- 
sants sent  as  a  present  to  France  (the  bird  is  all  but 
worshiped  by  Gallic  gourmands)  were,  on  their  arrival, 
condemned  by  the  police  as  unfit  for  human  food.  They 
were  in  a  state  of  putridity  so  forward,  that  it  was  con- 
sidered needless  to  bum  or  buiy  them;  they  were 
merely  thrown  out  on  a  public  dunghill,  in  the  belief 
that  nobody,  not  even  if  starving,  would  ever  dream  of 
eating  them. 


496  POULTBT  Am)  GAME. 

Next  morning,  £he  pheasants  Iiad  disappeared ;  and 
it  was  erentaally  discovered  that  a  wealthy  epicare,  who 
liad  witnessed  this  casting  out  of  culinary  pearls,  had 
waited  and  watched  till  the  dead  of  night,  and  then^ 
unseen,  had  rescued  the  precious  morsels,  which,  next 
day,  were  dressed  and  eaten,  in  private  conunittee^ 
with  ecstatic  relish. 

The  moment  makes  itself  known  to  the  pro&ne  by 
the  smell,  and  by  a  change  of  colour  in  the  belly  of  the 
bird ;  the  initiated  divine  it  by  the  same  kind  of  instinct 
which  enables  a  finished  roaster  to  decide  at  a  glance 
whether  to  take  a  fowl  from  the  spit,  or  allow  it  to  have 
one  or  two  turns  more.  A  great  point  is  not  to  pluck 
your  pheasant  too  soon.  Accurate  experiments  have 
proved  that  birds  kept  in  their  feathers  acquire  a  higher 
flavour  than  those  which  hang  long  in  a  state  of  nudity ; 
either  because  the  contact  of  the  air  neutralises  a  portion 
of  the  aroma,  or  because  a  portion  of  the  juices,  destined 
to  nourish  the  feathers,  is  reabsorbed,  and  enriches  the 
flesh.  In  any  case,  decomposition  must  be  allowed  to 
commence  before  the  day  for  cooking  a  pheasant  is  fixed. 
Then  its  foil  flavour  is  developed,  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  an  oily  fat  which  requires  a  slight  fermen- 
tation to  attain  its  full  ripeness ;  exactly  as  the  oil  in 
coffee  is  made  to  give  out  its  fragrance  by  the  process  of 
roasting. 

iNothing  can  be  plainer  than  the  English  mode  of 
dressing  pheasants :  roasting  them,  without  any  stuffing, 
before  a  quick  fire,  basting  well,  dishing  them  in  their 
own  gravy,  with  bread  sauce  as  an  accompaniment.    We 


POULTKY  AND  GAME,  497 

have  an  idea,  however,  that  the  flesh  of  the  bird  is 
improved  in  juicmess  by  filling  the  crop  only  with  veal 
staffing,  containing  a  little  more  beef-suet  than  ordinary. 
If  an  old  cock-pheasant  must  be  roasted,  let  him  hang  in 
the  larder  till  the  last  possible  moment,  and  then  stuff 
him  throughout  with  rump-steak,  fat  and  lean,  chopped 
small.  The  beef,  if  left,  will  make  capital  potted  meat 
afterwards.  But  the  best  way  of  disposing  of  old  cock- 
pheasant  is  to  Curry  it,  with  not  too  large  an  allowance 
of  curry-powder.  It  can  thus  be  stewed  down  to  any 
degree  of  tenderness,  even  to  the  flesh  falling  off  the 
bones ;  while  the  moderate  amount  of  seasoning  will 
bring  out  the  game  flavour  without  overpowering  it. 

French  cooks  fill  pheasants  with  a  variety  of  stuffings, 
principally  sausage-meat,  truffles,  mushrooms,  roast 
chestnuts,  and  bacon ;  they  surround  it  with  olives,  and 
send  up  with  it  sauces  seasoned  with  sundry  zests, — as 
vequice,  pepper  and  salt,  lemon-juice,  or  Seville  orange- 
juice. 

Brillat  Savarin's  receipt  is  famous,  but  expensive. 
In  his  time,  however,  woodcocks  were  much  cheaper 
than  they  are  now.  Several  towns  in  the  north  of 
France — as  Abbeville  and  Montreuil-sur-Mer — were 
once  celebrated  for  their  snipe  and  woodcock  pat^s ;  but 
such  things  have  become  rarities.  What  between  the 
drainage  of  land,  and  the  rapid  communication  with 
England,  the  few  birds  that  are  still  to  be  had  speedily 
find  their  way  to  the  best  market. 

Take  a  couple  of  woodcocks ;  bone  them  and  empty 
them.     Divide  the  proceeds  into  two  lots, — one  con- 

EK 


498  POULTBY  ASD  GAMS. 

sisting  of  the  flesh,  the  other  of  the  livers  and  en- 
trails. 

Take  the  flesh,  and  diop  it  into  a  forcemeat  with 
beef-marrow  that  has  been  cooked  by  steaming,  a  little 
grated  bacon,  pepper,  salt,  sweet  herbs,  and  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  good  truffles  to  fill  the  internal  cavity  of  the 
pheasant  Take  care  to  secure  this  stuffing  in  such  a 
way  that  it  cannot  escape ;  which  is  sometimes  difficult 
when  the  bird  is  "  forward."  Nevertheless,  there  are 
various  means  of  succeeding:  amongst  others,  by  cutting 
a  crust  of  bread  to  act  as  a  plug,  and  fastening  it  in  its 
position  by  a  string. 

Take  a  slice  of  bread  a  couple  of  inches  broader  and 
longer  every  way  than  the  pheasant  laid  upon  it  length- 
wise. Then  take  the  livers  and  entrails  of  the  wood- 
cocks, and  pound  them  together  with  two  large  truffles, 
an  anchovy,  a  little  minced  bacon,  and  a  good  lump  of 
butter.  Spread  this  paste  equally  over  the  slice  of  bread, 
and  place  it  under  the  pheasant  while  roasting,  so  as  to 
catch  every  drop  of  gravy  that  falls  firom  it  When 
roasted,  serve  your  pheasant  gracefully  reposing  on  its  bed 
of  toast,  surround  it  with  bitter  oranges,  and  make  your 
mind  easy  as  to  the  result  Its  success  is  guaranteed 
by  the  very  nature  of  things.  Treated  according  to  the 
preceding  receipt,  the  pheasant,  already  a  bird  of  dis- 
tinction in  itself,  is  saturated  externally  by  the  car- 
bonised fat  of  the  savoury  bacon ;  internally,  it  is  im- 
pregnated with  the  odorous  emanations  escaping  from 
the  truffles  and  the  woodcock-flesh.  The  toast,  already 
so  richly  garnished,  receives,  besides,  the  triple  com- 


POULTBY  AKD  GAME.  499 

bination  of  gravies  whicli  trickle  down  from  tlie  roasting 
bird. 

Chartreuse  of  PartridgeSy  or  of  Pigeons,  or  of  any 
•other  Poultry  J  Game,  or  MeaL  Both  the  title  and  the 
<x>mposition  of  this  dish  are  a  slander^  or  a  satire^  or  a 
libel  on  Carthusian  monks,  who,  professing  abstinence 
from  meat,  contrive  to  enjoy  it  nevertheless. 

It  would  be  curious  to  form  a  collection  of  the  various 
ways  in  which  popular  opinion  has  evinced  itself  covertly, 
when  it  dared  not,  or  could  not,  do  so  openly.  Few 
people  who  have  laughed  at  the  comic  circus  scene, 
"  Billy  Button ;  or,  the  Tailor's  Ride  to  Brentford,"  are 
aware  that  it  was  originally  an  acted  caricature  of 
Bobespierre.  That  monstrous  individual,  combining, 
as  often  happens,  cowardice  with  cruelty,  and  having 
to  appear  at  one  of  his  grand  occasions  on  horseback, 
manifested  such  evident  fear  of  his  steed,  as  to  excite 
ridicule  and  contempt  in  all  his  beholders.  We  are 
writing  from  memory,  but  think  it  was  at  the/^^«  when 
he  deigned  to  acknowledge  the  existence  of  a  Supreme 
Being.  The  horse-riders  of  the  day  tickled  the  public 
fancy  by  an  exhibition  which  every  body  understood. 
The  thing  became  popular,  crossed  the  Channel,  and 
^*  Billy  Button's  Ride"  excited  the  mirth  of  spectators 
long  after  its  sarcastic  allusions  were  lost.  But  it  put  a 
stop  to  Robespierre's  horsemanship;  and,  still  more  mar- 
vellous to  tell,  it  does  not  appear  that  its  authors  were 
guillotined  in  consequence. 

There  are  several  ways  of  making  a  Cliartreuse;  the 
following  is  the  simplest  and  easiest:  Take  an  oval  or 


500  POULTBT  AND  GAHE. 

oblong  mould,  large  enough  to  hold  a  couple  of  partridges, 
and  sufficient  vegetables  to  cover  and  conceal  them  com- 
pletely. 

Boil  carrots  and  turnips  in  broth;  when  cooked, 
take  them  out  to  drain.  Boil  Savoy  or  other  hearted 
cabbage  separately  in  water;  when  cooked,  let  them 
drain  in  a  cullender,  and  squeeze,  with  a  wooden  spoon , 
all  the  moisture  out  of  them.  You  may  also  have 
cooked  any  other  good  vegetable  that  is  in  season, — as 
green  pease,  kidney  beans,  small  onions,  &c. 

The  partridges  may  be  put  into  the  Chartreuse  whole ; 
but  if  cut  in  quarters,  they  will  be  more  convenient  to 
serve  with  a  spoon,  with  as  little  demolition  of  the 
Chartreuse  as  possible.  Stew  the  quartered  partridges 
till  tender  in  as  little  well-seasoned  gravy  as  may  be. 
This  stewing  allows  partridges  to  be  employed  which 
are  not  young  enough  to  make  a  first-rate  roast 

You  will  now  proceed  to  pack  your  Chartreuse.  If 
you  have  once  seen  one  served,  you  will  have  no  difficulty 
in  imitating  it.  Butter  the  inside  of  your  mould ;  at  the 
bottom  lay  strips  and  slices  of  carrot  and  turnip  cut 
into  any  shapes  and  lengths  you  fimcy ;  but  the  broader 
and  the  longer  they  are,  the  better  they  will  hold  together. 
You  will  dispose  them  in  some  kind  of  pattern.  Line 
the  sides  in  the  same  way  with  sliced  carrots  and  turnips. 
Then  put  in  a  lining  of  cabbage,  pressing  it  down  tightly, 
to  make  the  Chartreuse  easier  to  turn  out  of  its  mould. 
Then  put  the  stewed  and  quartered  partridges  all  together 
in  the  middle;  over  and  about  them  lay  your  more 
delicate  vegetables, — as  pease,  kidney  beans,  boiled  let- 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  501 

tnces  (thoroughly  drained  and  squeezed);  then  fill  up 
every  vacant  cranny  with  cabbage^  packing  it  as  tightly 
as  you  can. 

When  finished^  put  your  mould  into  a  hot-water 
bath,  taking  care  that  no  water  enters  it  Let  it  stew 
there  for  an  hour,  to  heat  thoroughly,  and  help  the 
ingredients  to  combine.  When  wanted,  clap  a  hot  dish 
to  the  open  top  of  the  mould ;  invert  them  by  a  rapid 
movement,  so  that  the  mould  is  standing  on  the  dish ; 
give  a  few  gentle  taps  with  the  handle  of  a  knife,  and  the 
mould  will  come  away,  leaving  the  Chartreuse  unbroken. 
Pour  round  it  the  heated-up  and  thickened  gravy  in 
which  the  partridges  were  stewed,  and  serve. 

This  dish  is  really  worth  the  trouble  it  gives.  It 
may  be  varied  by  the  addition  of  sausages  or  bacon  to 
the  ragodt  of  birds.  If  a  hot- water  bath  is  not  available, 
the  Charti*euse,  once  packed  in  its  mould,  may  be  heated 
up  over  hot  ashes  (with  care  not  to  bum),  or  in  a  sand- 
bath.  It  is  the  turning  it  out  of  the  mould  which  requires 
the  greatest  precaution  and  dexterity.  To  effect  this  with 
more  certainty,  some  cooks  put  an  oval  piece  of  paper  at 
the  bottom  of  the  mould,  and  line  its  sides  all  round  with 
one  broad  strip ;  others  make  use  of  linen-cloth  in  the 
same  way — ^which  is  better.  This  is  done  more  especially 
when  the  vegetables  and  game  are  only  three-parts 
cooked  before  putting  them  into  the  mould,  and  the 
cooking  is  finished  oSiniL 

Carrots  and  turnips,  boiled  in  soup  to  flavour  it,  will 
serve  perfectly  to  make  the  walls  of  a  Chartreuse.  In 
winter,  they  may  be  agreeably  varied  with  slices  of 


502  POULTBT  AKD  GAME. 

parsnip  and  salsify.  The  npper  and  lower  borders  of 
the  Chartreuse  may  be  garnished  with  green  pease, 
arranged  like  a  string  of  beads,  with  kidney  beans,  or 
with  caoliflower  divided  into  small  sprigs. 

Pigeons  [&om  Delamer's  PigeoTis  arid  Batbits] ,  Qtuxils, 
and  otiter  darh-jleshed  Birds^  have  the  reputation  of  being- 
a  heating  diet,  which  is  probably  correct.  Bnt,  how- 
ever that  may  be,  one  epicorean  role  holds  good  with 
pigeons, — ^which  is,  whatever  receipts  may  be  given  ix> 
serve  them  hot,  in  all  forms  they  are  better  eaten  cold. 
There  are,  in  fact,  only  two  orthodox  English  ways  of 
cooking  pigeons,  namely,  in  a  baked  pie,  and  in  a  boiled 
pie,  or  pigeon  pudding  (see  p.  448). 

Baked  Pigeon  Pie.  Pluck,  singe,  and  draw  the 
birds.  Cut  off  the  heads  and  necks,  and  put  them  asid& 
with  the  livers  and  gizzards.  Boil  these  down  for  gra\y, 
with  a  piece  of  beef,  adding  pepper,  salt,  and  mace. 

Some  cooks  put  the  pigeons  whole  into  the  pie-dish  ; 
but  they  are  more  convenient  to  help  at  table  if  divided 
into  quarters,  by  first  splitting  them  lengthwise  down 
the  back  and  along  the  breastbone,  and  then  cutting 
them  across. 

Put  a  pie-cup  inverted  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  ta 
retain  the  gravy.  At  the  bottom  of  the  dish  put  a  layer 
of  lean  beef-steak ;  you  may  substitute  veal  for  it,  if 
preferred.  On  the  steak  lay  the  quartered  pigeons,  until 
the  dish  is  fiiU.  Have  ready  some  hard-boiled  eggs 
peeled  from  the  shell ;  halve  them  crosswise,  and  make- 
use  of  them  to  fill  up  any  hollows  that  may  be  left 
between  the  pigeons,  with  the  view  of  giving  to  the- 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  50S 

crust  as  level  an  outside  surface  as  possible.  Pour  in 
the  gravy  over  aU.  The  feet  and  legs  of  the  pigeons 
should  have  been  cut  off  at  the  knee. 

When  the  crust  is  on  the  dish  and  the  pie  is  finished 
makings  stick  a  bunch  of  these  feet  and  logs  in  the 
middle,  to  mark  what  sort  of  pie  it  is.  This  pie  is 
intended  to  be  eaten  cold :  as  a  rule  in  cookery,  all  meat- 
pies  contaming  hard-boUed  eggs  are  meant  not  to  be 
eaten  hot.  The  pie-dish  is  here  mentioned  thus  particu- 
larly, because  it  is  not  the  general  fashion  to  make 
Pigeon  Pie  with  a  standing  crust,  the  bird  being  too 
small  to  bone  without  a  deal  of  trouble. 

Pigeon  Pat4  (French).  Take  six  fine  young  pigeons ; 
singe  and  empty  them.  Take  their  livers,  hearts,  giz- 
zards, and  lungs,  and  chop  them  very  small  (to  make  a 
forcemeat),  together  with  a  dozen  shallots,  one  clove  of 
garlic,  parsley,  thyme,  pepper  and  salt,  mixed  spices,  the 
eighth  of  a  pound  of  beef-suet,  and  the  same  of  lean  veal 
(both  chopped  small).  Add  to  these  a  raw  egg,  and  a 
spoonful  of  brandy.  Mix  all  together,  and  with  it  stuff 
the  bodies  of  your  pigeons. 

At  the  bottom  of  your  earthen  pat^-dish  put  a  layer 
of  slices  of  bacon  sprinkled  with  shallots  and  sweet  herbs 
chopped  small ;  then  a  layer  of  pigeons ;  then  thin- 
sliced  bacon  sprinkled  with  shallots,  &c. ;  and  so  on. 
Fill  up  the  top  with  knuckle  of  veal  cut  into  small 
pieces,  to  form  the  jelly ;  throw  in  a  tumbler  of  white 
wine,  or  wine-and-waterifthe  wine  i8  very  strong.  Lute 
the  cover  of  the  pat6-dish  down  with  paste,  and  send  it 
to  the  baker's  to  pass  the  night  in  his  oven. 


501  POULTBT  AND  GAME. 

This  preparation  possesses  many  good  qualities.  It 
is  economical,  for  there  is  nothing  wasted;  it  is  oon- 
venient,  for  it  is  always  ready  so  long  as  it  lasts ;  and  it 
is  agreeable,  for  it  furnishes  a  savoury  cool  repast  in 
sultry  weather. 

Booh  Pie.  On  estates  where  there  are  rookeries,  a 
proportion  of  the  young  birds  are  often  killed  off  in 
spring.  As  they  must  be  shot  immediately  they  leave 
the  nest,  while  still  sitting  perched  on  the  branches 
around  it,  and  before  they  have  taken  flight  with  their 
parents,  they  afford  easy  practice  for  juvenile  gunners, 
and  may  be  afterwards  converted  into  an  excellent  pie. 

Skin  the  birds ;  quarter  them ;  let  them  lie  all  night 
in  salt-and-water ;  and  then  treat  them  exactly  as  for 
Pigeon  Pie. 

Boast  Pigeons  (French).  Idem.  The  birds  should 
be  killed  by  having  their  necks  broken,  and  should  not 
be  bled.  When  they  are  plucked,  drawn,  singed,  and 
trussed,  cover  them  with  three  or  four  thin  slices  of 
bacon,  and  as  many  vine-leaves,  tied  around  them  with 
a  coarse  thread.  Boast  them  on  a  spit,  and  baste  them 
with  good  veal  broth  and  a  slice  of  butter.  If  they  arc 
young  and  tender,  half  an  hour  is  long  enough  to  cook 
them.  If  they  are  to  be  eaten  hot,  dish  them  up  as  they 
are,  simply  taking  off  the  thread  which  confines  the  vine- 
leaves  and  the  bacon,  and  serve  them  with  a  Scntee 
Piquante  made  by  mixing  a  little  mustard,  salt,  tarragon 
vinegar,  and  pepper  with  the  gravy  which  comes  from 
them.  If  the  gravy  is  poor  or  short  in  quantity,  add  a 
little  very  good  Florence  oD. 


POULTRY  AND  GAME.  505^ 

If  the  Boast  Pigeons  are  to  be  eaten  cold,  as  advised, 
they  will  keep  a  better  shape  if  the  thread  is  not  removed 
till  they  are  quite  cold,  supposing  it  bo  intended  to 
let  the  bacon  and  vine-leaves  remain  upon  them.  .In 
this  case,  serve  with  a  garnishing  of  watercresses,  nas- 
turtium and  borage  flowers,  and  the  heart-leaves  of 
cabbage-lettuces.  Let  them  be  accompanied  by  a  sauce- 
boat  containing  salad  mixture.  If  the  larding  (as  bacon 
so  employed  is  called)  and  vine-leaves  be  removed,  the 
pigeons  must  be  glazed,  or  glacMj  when  they  are  half 
cold,  with  a  glazing  made  by  boiling  down  the  remains 
of  a  ham,  with  a  small  knuckle  of  veal,  or  a  piece  of 
shin  of  beef.  Garnish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  savoury 
jelly  turned  out  of  very  small  moulds. 

To  carve  roast  pigeons,  cut  them  in  quarters,  leaving 
the  portion  of  breast  attached  to  each  wing  or  leg  that  is 
helped. 

Pigeons  a  la  Crapaudine — Broiled  Pigeons  (French). 
Idem.  Select  young  birds,  which  have  the  down  still 
hanging  to  the  tips  of  their  feathers.  Singe  them 
as  before;  cut  off  the  neck  from  the  body,  and  split  them 
open  down  the  back.  Flatten  them  as  well  as  you  can 
without  breaking  too  many  bones.  Smear  them  with 
oil  or  butter,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
parsley  and  chives  minced  fine.  Make  this  seasoning 
stick  on  in  as  great  a  quantity  as  possible.  Cover  them 
also  with  bread-crumbs  or  raspings,  or  with  grated 
biscuit.  Lay  them  on  the  gridiron,  and  grill  them  over 
a  slow  fire,  which,  of  course,  should  be  made  with  char- 
coal.    When  they  are  nicely  browned  and  thoroughly 


506  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

cooked,  serve  them  with  a  sauce  made  of  veijuioe  or 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  minced  shallots,  and  a  morsel  of 
butter;  or  they  may  be  served  with  the  above-men- 
tioned Sauce  Piquante.  Young  Rabbits  may  be  cooked 
in  the  same  way. 

Broiled  pigeons,  rabbits,  and  '^  such  small  deer," 
will  come  to  table  a  better  shape  if  they  are  flattened 
and  held  together  with  fine  iron  skewers,  parboUed  for 
ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an  hour  in  good  veal  broth, 
instead  of  water,  suffered  to  cool,  and  the  skewors 
then  withdrawn.  So  prepared,  they  are  convenient  for 
innkeepers  and  others  to  have  at  hand,  to  put  on  the 
gridiron  and  serve  at  ten  minutes'  notice.  The  sauce 
for  Broiled  Pigeons  most  agreeable  to  English  palates 
is  Mushroom  Sauce,  ue.  pickled  mushroom  buttons 
thrown  into  melted  butter,  with  which  a  little  ketchup, 
Heading  Sauce,  Soy,  or  other  approved  browning,  has 
been  previously  mingled. 

Pigeons  a  la  Tartare^  with  Tartar  Sauce.  Broil  them 
as  before,  and  when  they  are  of  a  light  brown  and  well 
hot  through,  servo  them  on  a  hot  dish,  smrounded  with 
Tartar  sauce. 

Pigeons  may  be  Roasted  in  a  Stew-pan,  like  Leg  of 
Lamb  (p.  372). 

Pigeons  and  Green  Pease.  Put  them  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  a  good  lump  of  butter  and  some  white  bacon  cut 
into  dice.  Give  them  a  toss  or  two  over  the  fire,  and 
then  let  them  have  a  dusting  of  flour.  Make  them  take 
a  good  colour;  then  add  a  quart  of  young  green  pease, 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  sprig  of  mint.     Moisten 


P0T7LTRT  AND  GAME.  507 

with  a  little  broth,  cook  till  thej  are  done  enough  over 
a  slow  fire,  and  serve  snrroonded  with  all  the  pease  and 
only  a  small  quantity  of  the  gravy. 

Instead  of  pease,  you  may  employ  the  tender  green 
stalks  of  yonng  ron-up  asparagus-plants  chopped  ta 
about  the  size  of  pease. 

Stuffed  JPiffeona,  Select  fine  and  full-grown  pigeons 
of  the  current  year.  Pluck  and  singe  them,  and  empty 
them  by  a  small  opening  made  in  the  side,  in  order  to- 
fill  them  better  with  stuffing. 

Make  a  light  forcemeat  with  any  remains  of  cold 
fowl,  veal  sweetbread,  truffles  or  mushrooms,  and  a  little- 
minced  bacon,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  bound 
together  by  beat-up  egg.  Brown  them  with  butter  in  a 
stew-pan  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  add  a  ladleful  of  stock, 
cover  them  closely  with  the  lid  of  the  stew-pan,  and 
stew  slowly  until  they  are  enough. 

Pigeaiis  en  PapUlotea — in  Curl-papera.  Cook  them 
slowly  in  a  stew-pan,  with  chopped  bacon,  butter,  salt,, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg.  When  they  are  half-done,  add  small 
herbs,  mushrooms,  and  a  minced  shallot.  Care  must  b& 
taken  not  to  overdo  them.  When  they  are  cold,  cut  them 
in  halves  down  the  back  and  breast,  cover  them  with  their 
seasoning,  and  wrap  them  in  oiled  or  buttered  writing- 
paper.    Grill  them  over  a  slow  fire  for  twenty  minutes. 

Woodcock  and  Snipe.  These  birds,  as  cooked  in  the^ 
usual  way,  tovthout  drawing  the  intestines,  are  regarded 
by  different  persons  with  very  different  eyes,  according 
to  the  state  of  their  stomachs  or  their  prejudices.  By 
some,  the  Woodcock  is  regarded  as  the  Queen  of  the 


508  POULTBT  Am)  GAMS. 

Marsh,  and  one  of  the  most  distinguished  roasts  which 
it  is  possible  to  offer  to  persons  of  the  highest  consi- 
deration. No  culinary  tribute  of  respect  (except  the 
pheasant)  can  rival  the  estimation  in  which  the  Wood- 
cock is  held.  This  precious  bird  is  so  venerated  bj 
epicures,  that  thej  render  it  the  same  honours  as  are 
paid  to  the  Grand  Lama.  Not  only  are  its  dejections, 
or  trail,  carefully  caught  on  buttered  toast  moistened 
with  lemon-juice,  but  they  are  afterwards  eaten  in  solemn 
silence  by  fervent  and  admiring  amateurs. 

Others,  regarding  Snipe  and  Woodcock  with  disgust, 
repudiate  them  altogether ;  for  few  persons  would  have 
the  courage  to  request  their  cook  to  empiy  the  birds 
before  roasting  them,  and  fewer  cooks  would  dare  to 
obey  the  order,  if  critical  guests  were  expected  to  be 
present 

It  is  just  possible  that  the  one  set  of  persons  do  not 
get  so  much  as  they  fancy  they  do,  and  that  the  others 
need  not  be  so  very  much  a&aid  of  swallowing  what  they 
naturally  regard  with  aversion.  Woodcock  and  snipe,  it 
appears,  when  wounded,  relieve  both  their  stomach  and 
their  bowel  of  any  thing  that  might  prove  offensive. 

Mr.  Ejiox,  in  his  Game  Birds  and  Wild  Fotclj  sug- 
gests another  reason  for  the  bird's  being  a  more  cleanly 
morsel  to  eat  than  is  generally  supposed.  ^^I  suc- 
ceeded in  rearing  a  young  woodcock,"  he  tells  us,  "  by 
feeding  him  plentiftilly  with  earth-worms — the  species 
called  brandlings,  which  abound  in  old  heaps  of  compost, 
were  the  best  These,  when  mixed  with  wet  mould,  he 
devoured  greedily;  and  I  found  no  small  difficulty  in 


POULTBY  AND  GAME.  509 

fomlsliing  him  with  a  sufficient  quantify,  while  I  varied 
his  diet  occasionallj  with  gentles,  tadpoles,  and  the 
larvas  of  aquatic  insects. 

^^  He  became  quite  tame  and  reconciled  to  his  place 
of  captivity,  which  was  an  outhouse,  the  door  of  which 
had  been  removed  and  replaced  by  a  fragment  of  an  old 
fishing-net  Like  all  pets,  however,  he  met  with  an 
tmtimely  fate.  One  afternoon,  an  inquisitive  spaniel 
managed  to  creep  under  the  net,  and  although  a  speedy 
rescue  was  attempted,  it  was  too  late;  his  career  was 
ended.  Being  in  excellent  condition,  he  was  handed 
over  to  the  cook,  and  a  better  bird  never  appeared  upon 
a  table.  So  rapid  tuas  his  digestion^  that  the  stomach  was 
perfectly  empty ;  and  the  other  viscera,  or  ^  trail,'  con- 
tained only  the  peculiar  cream-like  matter  usually  found 
in  the  woodcock,  while  its  flavour  was  positively  irre- 
proachable, although  he  had  breakfasted  that  very 
morning  on  nearly  half  a  flower-potful  of  worms." 


510  YEGETABLB& 


XVL 

VEGETABLES. 

Once  npon  a  time  there  lived  and  flourished  people  so 
ignorant  of  the  constitution  of  the  human  frame  as  to 
hold  it  to  be  "  vulgar"  to  eat  vegetables.  They  might 
almost  as  well  have  held  it  to  be  vulgar  to  eat  at  aU. 
Beau  Brummel,  asked  whether  he  had  never  eaten  any 
vegetable,  replied,  with  a  sneer,  that  he  believed  he  once 
ate — a  pea.  The  consequence  was,  that  fresh  vegetables 
were  but  scantily  supplied  on  fashionable  or  would-be 
fashionable  tables;  and  we  may  be  certain  that  the 
health  of  that  generation  suffered  by  the  spread  of 
scorbutic  disease,  and  the  prevalence  of  many  ill-defined 
<somplaints. 

Since  that  time,  common  sense  and  dietetic  science 
have  made  considerable  strides  in  advance.  Nobody 
now,  in  well-educated  society,  would  venture  to  plead 
guilty  to  having  "  once  ate  a  pea."  On  the  contrary, 
plants  in  general  are  recognised  as  the  basis  and  support 
of  animal  life.  Philosophers  have  exercised  their  in- 
tellects in  discussing  which,  if  any,  of  the  planets  and 
their  satellites  are  inhabited  by  sentient  and  intelligent 
creatures.  Our  cnriosity  would  be  satisfied  could  we 
only  ascertain  which  of  those  worlds  possessed  a  world 
of  vegetables ;  the  rest  would  follow.     Without  plants, 


VEGETABLES.  511 

the  existence  of  animal  life  is  scarcely  conceivable :  with 
them — with  the  sustenance  and  shelter  which  they  offer 
in  unlimited  profusion — ^^'e  may  fairly  assume  that  the 
Benevolent  Being  who  created  them  would  also  create 
higher  organisms  to  profit  by  the  supplies  they  fiimish. 

Plants  are  the  agents  which  achieve  the  first  difficult 
step  of  converting  inorganic  into  organic  material. 
The  moss  and  the  lichen  on  the  naked  rock  squeeze 
carbon  from  the  atmosphere;  which  carbon  becomes 
in  time  a  bed  of  vegetable  mould.  Larger  and  more 
luxuriant  plants  succeed,  without  exterminating,  their 
humble  predecessors.  Then  come  insects  and  herb- 
bating  animals,  to  check  the  plants'  luxuriance;  and 
then  come  the  insectivorous  bird  and  the  flesh-eating 
animal,  to  thin  the  swarms  of  caterpillars  and  the  troops 
of  grazers  and  browsers. 

In  the  sea,  also,  exactly  the  same  sequence  of  pro- 
<luction  and  consumption  occurs.  First,  we  have  sea- 
plants — not  one  of  which  is  poisonous,  while  many 
are  nutritious  and  medicinal ;  then,  the  mollusk  feeding 
on  the  sea-plant,  and  fed  on  by  fishes  with  teeth  and 
{stomachs  adapted  to  their  diet ;  finally,  the  innumer- 
^ble  feeders,  great  and  smaU,  who  live  by  preying  on  one 
another. 

Oysters,  mussels,  cockles,  and  other  shell-fish  which 
live,  according  to  the  popular  expression,  by  "  suction'' 
— ^by  microscopic  particles  brought  to  them  by  watery 
ourrents  caused  by  the  vibration  of  their  cilia — are  not 
a  whit  less  than  their  greedier  neighbours  the  dependents 
and  the  offspring  of  the  vegetable  world.     Although 


512  VEGETABLES. 

iheir  flesh  secretes  from  the  waters  inorganic  matters  to 
form  their  shell,  the  food  thej  take  in  (however  minute) 
to  increase  their  jleBhy  growth   is    entirely    organic 
Their  diet  consists  either  of  minute  vegetable  particles, 
or  of  infusorial  animalcules  that  have  fed  on  vegetables. 
The  human  race  tops  the  ladder  of  organic  life  very- 
much  in  the  style  of  "  The  House  that  Jack  Built." 
For,  this  is  the  Sportsman  that  shot  the  Buck,  that 
swallowed  the  Snail,  that  gnawed  the  Cabbage,  that  grew 
as  a  Plant  in  garden-ground.     And  this  is  the  Lady 
that  picked  the  Lobster,  that  killed  the  Codling,  that 
devoured  the  Star-fish,  that  crushed  the  Whelk,  that 
bored  the  Periwinkle,  that  nibbled  the  Pucus,  that  grew 
as  a  Plant  in  the  bed  of  the  Sea.     All  flesh  is  grass,  and 
all  fish  too.     How,  then,  can  we  do  without  vegetables? 

The  extreme  importance  of  vegetables  or  fruits 
entering  in  large  proportion  into  our  daily  rations  is 
less  strongly  forced  upon  our  observation,  in  consequence 
of  the  profusion  and  constancy  with  which  they  are 
supplied  to  us.  Our  summers,  happily,  are  rarely  so 
hot  and  dry  as  to  cause  "greens"  to  fail;  while  our 
winters  are  seldom  so  severe  as  to  destroy  and  reduce 
them  to  a  pulp  by  frost  Covent-Garden  Market  is 
never  empty  at  six  o'clock  of  a  week-day  morning,  and 
the  greengrocer  has  always  something  to  show,  more  or 
less  fresh  and  attractive  to  the  eye. 

Many  people  fancy  that  the  principal  value  of  potatoes, 
cabbages,  carrots,  turnips,  and  other  vegetables  ftimished 
by  the  kitchen-garden  and  the  field,  consists  in  their 
eheapnessy  in  their  supplying  a  large  quantity  of  food  at 


VEGETABLES.  513 

a  low  rate  of  cost,  in  their  filling  the  stomachs  of 
families  without  drawing  too  deeply  on  the  family 
treasury.  They  would  treat  themselves  and  their 
households  to  more  meat,  they  think,  and  eat  fewer 
potatoes  and  other  filling-up  stuff,  were  not  the  former 
so  dear  in  price.  They  would  do  this  rather  to  gratify 
their  palates,  than  out  of  considerations  respecting  health 
and  strength.  They  are  aware  that  meat  is  strengthen* 
ing,  hut  they  forget  the  wholesome  influence  of  vege- 
tables. By  "  vegetables,"  of  course,  is  meant  here  the 
firesh  produce  of  the  kitchen-garden ;  although  all  dry 
grain,  com,  flour,  riee,  maize,  and  the  like,  equally 
belong  to  the  vegetable  kingdom.  They  also  have  their 
beneficial  eflects  on  health,  but  in  a  different  manner 
and  degree  to  those  of  kitchen  vegetables. 

To  realise  fully  the  medicinal  influence  of  a  diet  in 
which  fresh  vegetables  supply  their  share,  we  have  only 
to  read  the  accounts  of  navigators,  especially  of  Captain 
Cook  and  his  predecessors.  They  made  the  discovery 
that  fresh  vegetables  are  a  specific  against  that  terrible 
disease,  the  scurvy,  of  which  Willis  says,  "  It  is  not  any 
particular  disease,  but  a  legion  of  diseases."  Enough 
meat  is  not  enough ;  it  must  be  qualified  by  vegetables  : 
whereas  men  can  continue  to  live  on  vegetables  alone 
in  health,  if  not  in  the  fulness  of  their  possible  strength. 
Not  long  since,  a  short-sighted  old  lady,  who  refused  to 
touch  fruit  or  vegetables  for  fear  of  cholera,  actually  died 
of  scurvy  in  consequence  of  her  mistaken  prejudice. 
And  such  a  small  quantify  of  vegetable  sufiSces  to 
manifest  its  medicinal   virtue!     Sir    Edward   Parry, 

LL 


514  YIOSTABLES. 

while  exploring  that  most  fearful  of  cutrde^mesj  the 
North- West  Passage,  restored  several  of  his  invalid 
sailors  to  health  by  cultivating  for  their  use,  on  the  fines 
of  his  cabin,  mustard-and-cress,  '^  sallets  good  for  the 
scorbnte/' 

The  mysteiy  which  formerlj  hnng  abont  the  natoxe 
of  scurvy  was  the  great  impediment  to  its  cure  and  the 
cause  of  its  spread.     Charleton  observes,  that  it  arises 
^^  chiefly  from  sharp,  saline  Particles  taken  in  by  In- 
spiration, from  salt  and  corrupted  Meats  eaten,  from 
bad  Waters  drank,  from  Nastiness,  deep  Chagrins,  &c. 
Which  Sentiment  is  confirmed   by  a  daily  Experi- 
ence; since   Sailors,  when  at  Sea,  who  breathe  con- 
tinually a  salt  Air,  eat  salt  and  corrupted  Meats,  drink 
bad  Waters,  and  do  not  keep  themselves,  then,  extremely 
dean,  are  more  subject  to  it  than  others.''     It  does  not 
occur  to  him  that  sailors  on  board  ship  scarcely  breathe 
a  Salter  air,  or  are  less  cleanly  in  their  habits,  than 
many  of  the  inhabitants  of  sea-port  towns ;  but  that 
during  a  long  voyage  they  are  deprived  of  vegetables, 
which  the  latter  have  daily  at  their  conunand. 

Nevertheless,  the  old  practitioners  were  aware  that 
^^  a  very  exact  Diet  is  of  more  Effect  than  the  best 
Medicines ;  without  this,  it  becomes  incurable.  Bleed- 
ing does  not  av£ul;  strong  Purgatives  are  hurtfrd." 
For  the  particular  symptoms  of  the  disease-— and  the  list 
is  sad — ^particular  medicines  adapted  thereto  were  to  be 
used ;  only  miannff  antiscorbuiies  with  them  alL  And  the 
principal  simple  antiscorbutics  were,  horse-radish,  sorrel^ 
butter-bur,  scorzonera,  sow-thistle,  zedoaxy,  polypody. 


YEOETABLES.  515 

elecampane,  guaiacnm,  sassafras,  mnstard-seed,  water- 
cress, water-trefoil,  oranges,  lemons,  and  juniper- 
berries — all  fruits,  vegetables,  or  roots. 

People  on  land  are  as  liable  as  people  at  sea  to 
flcurvy,  when  confined  to  a  dry  and  salt  meat  diet,  with 
a  scant  of  vegetables.  In  the  Memoirs  of  the  French 
Academy,  M.  Poupart  gives  a  minute  account  of  scurvy 
which  raged  in  Paris  in  the  year  1699.  Its  symptoms 
;and  consequences  were  extraordinary ;  yet  it  was  a  true 
scurvy,  and  the  persons  attacked  by  it  had  all  the  usual 
scorbutic  symptoms. 

A  striking  instance  of  the  magic  influence  of 
fresh  vegetable  food  in  preserving  health  is  given  in 
Dr.  Hooker's  most  interesting  lecture  on  Insular  I^oi'^s  :* 

^^  Kerguelen's  Land,  the  Isle  of  Desolation  of  Cook, 
is  situated  in  the  tempestuous  South  Indian  Ocean,  in 
the  south  latitude,  corresponding  to  the  latitude  of 
Cornwall  north,  and  within  the  northern  limit  of  float- 
ing icebergs.  It  rears  itself  from  the  ocean  as  a  black 
volcanic  mass,  girt  with  sea-clifis,  and  perennially 
swept  by  terrific  storms.  At  a  few  miles'  distance  it 
appears  to  be  absolutely  sterile,  and  on  nearing  the 
•coast  the  scenery  scarcely  improves.  A  narrow  belt  of 
grass  skirts  the  deep  harbours,  and  above  this  are  brown, 
rounded  heaps  of  a  very  peculiar  Umbelliferous  plant 
{Azorella  Selago)^  growing  like  tufts  of  a  gigantic  moss 
or  saxifirage.  These  are  succeeded  by  scattered  tufts  of 
^ass  and  herbs  struggling  for  existence  in  a  most  barren 
soil. 

*  See  the  Nos.  of  the  Oardenen*  Chroniek  for  Jamuury  1867. 


516  VEGETABLES. 

«  Of  the  flowering  plants,  aU  are  perennial,  and  one 
of  them  had  a  yerj  remarkable  appearance.  It  was  a 
gigantic  Cmciferons  plant,  allied  to  the  northern  Scurvy- 
Grass  {Coehlearia)y  and  which  we  christened  the  K^:- 
goelen's-Land  Cabbage,  both  because  of  its  appearance, 
and  because  we  used  it  daily  as  a  pot-herb.  During 
one  hundred  and  thirty  days  we  ate  no  other  firesh 
vegetable  than  this,  which  was  served  with  the  ship's 
salt  junk  and  pork ;  and  during  that  time  there  was  nat 
a  case  of  illness  of  any  consequence  in  a  company  of  one 
hundred  and  twenty  officers  and  men.  It  hence  well 
merits  its  Latin  name  of  PringUa  antiscorinUicay  the 
generic  name  being  given  in  compliment  to  Sir  John 
Pringle,  an  eminent  writer  on  that  scourge  of  seamen, 
the  scurvy* 

*^  This  plant  was  abundant  near  the  sea,  and  is  a 
well-marked  feature  in  the  view  of  Christmas  Harbour 
which  is  engraved  in  Captain  Cook's  Third  VoyagOb  It 
is  allied  to  no  other  known  plant  in  the  southern 
hemisphere,  and  is  as  remarkable,  whether  for  its 
curious  habit  of  growth,  or  its  botanical  characters, 
as  any  of  those  singular  plants  which  I  have  indicated 
as  forming  peculiar  features  in  the  sea-cliffs  of  the 
Madeiran,  Azorean,  or  Canarian  Islands.  Like  these, 
too,  it  tells  no  tale  as  to  the  origin  or  affinities  of  the 
Kerguelen's-Land  Flora." 

The  importance  (under  those  peculiar  circumstances) 
of  a  single  cruciferous  plant  could  be  hardly  brought 
into  higher  relief;  and  it  will  be  remembered  that  many 
of  our  most  useful  kitchen  vegetables  belong  to  the 


VEGETABLES.  517 

Cmoiferous  Family,  so  called  because  their  flowers 
have  four  petals  disposed  opposite  to  each  other  in  the 
form  of  a  cross. 

The  plants  cultivated  in  European  kitchen-gardens 
belong  to  a  comparatively  small  number  of  Natural 
Families — ^so  few,  indeed,  that  they  are  speedily  padsed 
in  review. 

1.  The  above-named  Crucifers  include  cabbages, 
cauliflowers,  broccoli,  Brussels  sprouts,  Scotch  kale  and 
sprouting  kale,  couve  tronchuda  or  Portugal  cabbage, 
sea-kale,  kohl-rabi  or  turnip-rooted  cabbage,  turnips, 
radishes,  garden-cress,  mustard,  horse-radish,  water- 
cress. 

2.  The  Umbellifers  (from  the  Latin  for  an  umbrella, 
also  for  a  head  of  fennel)  contribute  carrots,  parsnips, 
skirrets,  celery,  parsley,  chervil,  fennel,  angelica,  cara- 
way, coriander,  and  the  true  samphire.* 

*  We  are  all  acquainted  with  one  that  gathers  samphire  ''half- 
way down  the  face"  of  Dover  cliff;  bat  how  manj  of  our  readers 
know  the  taste  of  the  produce  of  that  "dreadful  trade"?  The 
samphire  business  nowadays  must  be  a  small  concern.  One  or  two 
species  of  glass-wort»  which  grow  on  mud-banks  washed  by  the  sea,  are 
sold  and  pickled  by  the  style  and  title  of  samphire,  but  are  as  false  a 
substitute  for  the  real  thing  as  was  the  fair  maid  of  the  ballad  who 
listed  « under  the  name  of  Richard  Carr."  The  pickled  Sallcomias 
taste  of  nothing  but  the  vinegar  and  the  spices,  and  altogether  differ 
from  that  classic  Umbellifer,  the  Crithmum  maritimum,  which  requires 
chM  for  its  soil  as  well  as  saline  vapour  for  its  atmosphere. 

John  Evelyn,  whose  Kalendarium  Hortense  marks  quite  an  epoch  in 
our  Oarden  Literature,  had  a  high  opinion  of  the  merits  of  "  sampler," 
as  he  calls  it.  **  Not  only  pickled,  but  crude  and  cold,  when  young 
and  tender  (and  such  as  we  may  cultivate  and  have  in  our  kitchen, 
gardens  almost  the  year  round),  it  is,  in  my  opinion,  for  its  aromatic 
and  other  excellent  vertues  and  effects  against  the  spleen,  cleansing 
the  passages,  shaip'ning  appetite,  &c.,  so  far  preferable  to  most  of  our 


518  VEGETABUES. 

3*  The  Legaminons  or  pod-bearing,  otherwise  the* 
Papilionaoeoua  or  battorflj-fiowered  plants,  give  pease,, 
beans,  kidnej-beans,  scarlet-runners,  lentils. 

4«  The  Composite-flowered  snpply  artichokes,  car- 
doons,  lettuoe,  endive,  chicoiy,  scorzonera,  salsify^ 
Jemsalem  artichokes,  tarragon,  dandelion. 

5.  The  Liliaceous  Family  furnishes,  first,  asparagus^ 
and  then  the  whole  invaluable  tribe  of  onions,  shaUota, 
scallions,  chives,  leeks,  garlic,  rocambole. 

6.  Out  of  the  enormous  Sdanum  Family  we  get 
only  four  esculent  species :  the  potato,  the  tomato,  the 
aubergine  or  egg-plant,  and  the  capsicum  or  cayenne- 
pepper  plant.  The  first  is  enormously  consumed  here;^ 
the  three  last  are  also  largely  grown  in  countries  whose- 
summer  is  wanner  and  longer  than  that  of  England. 

7.  Unless  we  include  the  ice-plant  (for  garnishing- 
desserts),  the  Mesembryanthemums — another  large- 
Family —  only  contribute  the  New-Zealand  Spinach, 
Tetragcnia  eapansa — a  very  poor  substitute  for  European 
spinach,  although  Captain  Cook,  by  Sir  Joseph  Banks's- 
advice,  administered  it  to  his  crew  as  an  antiscorbutia 

8.  The  Labiate,  or  lip-flowered.  Family  supplies  many 
of  our  aromatics :  mint,  sage,  hyssop,  maijoram,  winter 
and  summer  savory,  thyme,  balm,  basil. 

9.  The  Cucurbitaceous  plants  give  us  cucumbers, 

hotter  herbs  and  sallet  ingredients,  that  I  have  often  wondered  it  has  not 
been  long  since  propagated  in  the  potagere,  as  it  is  in  France,  from 
whence  I  hare  frequently  receir'd  the  seeds,  which  have  prospered 
better  and  more  kindly  with  me  than  what  comes  from  our  own  coasts. 
It  does  not  indeed  pickle  so  well,  as  being  of  a  more  tender  stalk  and  leaf;, 
bnt,  in  all  other  respects,  for  composing  sallets  it  has  nothing  like  it."* 


VEGJESTABLE&  519 

melons,  and  the  immense  varieiy  of  gourds  and  pump- 
kins. The  first  of  these  is  less  used  in  the  South  of 
Europe  than  with  us,  being  employed  principally  for 
pickling  young  as  gherkins ;  the  others  render  consider- 
able service  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  warmer  latitudes  of 
the  Continent. 

10.  From  the  unpromising  Docks,  the  PolygonesB, 
we  have  sorrel  (insufficiently  appreciated  in  England), 
rhubarb  (lightly  esteemed  abroad) ;  and  the  herb 
patience,  gone  out  of  fashion  here,  although  it  is  valu* 
able  as  early  spinach,  especially  if  relieved  by  a  mixture 
of  sorrel. 

11.  The  Chenopods,  or  Goosefoots,  give  us  beetroot, 
for  salad ;  spinach,  the  summer  plague  of  gardeners  and 
the  touchstone  of  good  plain  cooks ;  and  orache,  whose 
leaves  are  excellent  in  spring  soups. 

12.  To  the  same  purpose  are  applied  the  leaves  of 
purslane,  which  gives  its  name  to  a  Family,  the  Portu- 
lacese.     It  is  likewise  eaten  young  in  salad. 

18.  The  Borages  contribute  blue  and  white  flowers 
for  garnishing  the  same. 

14.  The  TropsBolums  also  give,  through  the  garden 
nasturtium,  flowers  for  salad,  and  flower-buds  and 
immature  seeds  for  pickling. 

15.  Gom-salad,  or  Lamb-lettuce,  is  one  of  the 
Valerians,  which  suggests  to  some  palates  the  taste  of  a 
druggist's  shop. 

16.  One  of  the  Campanulas,  or  Bell-flowers,  the 
rampion,  has  a  root  which  oxur  forefathers  used  to  scrape 
and  eat  in  salads,  or  like  radishes,  but  which  very  rarely 


j» 


520  TEGETABLE& 

appears  at  table  now,  although  the  plant  maj  occasion- 
allj  be  fonnd  in  old-established  gardens. 

17.  Finally,  the  cnltiyated  nrashroom  represents  not 
merely  a  Family,  bat  a  grand  Natural  Division  of  the 
Vegetable  Kingdom. 

It  thus  appears  that,  in  the  British  Isles,  cnltiyated 
kitchen-garden  vegetables  are  derived  from  no  more 
than  seventeen  Natural  Families  of  plants,  which,  by 
careful  searching  out,  might  be  extended  a  litUe  beyond 
a  score. 

Most  vegetables  (with  a  few  exceptions,  such  as  green 
pease,  when  shelled  by  fingers  known  to  be  dean)  should 
be  thrown  into  cold  water  immediately  after  trimming, 
paring,  scraping,  or  other  necessary  preparation,,  and 
allowed  to  remain  there  some  time  previous  to  cooking. 
If  fresh,  this  prevents  the  evaporation  of  their  natural 
juices  (and  in  some,  as  the  Jerusalem  artichoke,  their 
discoloration)  by  the  contact  of  the  air.  If  slightly  faded, 
or  the  weather  be  hot,  it  freshens  them  up.  Flaccid 
vegetables,  that  have  become  limp  and  drooping,  never 
cook  so  well  in  that  state. 

The  Cabbage-tribe  renders  immense  service  in  the 
kitchen,  and  even  in  a  first-rate  kitchen.  A  skilfril 
artist  finds  in  these  plants  great  resources  for  varying  his 
soups,  rago{its,  garnishes,  and  frameworks.  A  boiled 
rump  of  beef  (or  even  an  adult  partridge  stewed)  takes 
it  as  a  compliment  to  be  flanked  by  a  stout  wall  of 
cabbage.  All  depends  on  the  treatment  and  seasoning. 
It  is  exactly  thus  that  the  pen  of  the  poet  ennobles  the 
most  commonplace  expressions. 


VEGETABLES,  521 

Cabbage^  Plam-^boUed ;  either  Savoys  or  hearted 
summer -cabbage.  If  the  cabbages  are  large,  cut 
diem  across  at  the  bottom  twice,  without  dividing 
them,  to  allow  the  water  to  enter  them.  Throw  them 
into  boiling  soft  water  with  salt  in  it,  and  let  them 
gallop  without  the  lid  on.  The  time  they  take  to  cook 
will  depend  entirely  on  their  age  and  the  solidness  of 
their  hearts.  When  quite  tender,  take  them  up  and  let 
them  drain  in  a  cullender,  pressing  out  the  water  gently 
with  a  spoon.  Cabbage  sent  to  table  dripping  is  one  of 
the  rudest  specimens  of  cookery.  After  draining  in  the 
cullender,  transfer  them  to  your  hot  vegetable-dish. 
Apply  a  small  hot  plate  to  the  top ;  squeeze  the  cabbage 
firmly  with  this,  holding  the  dish  sideways  to  let  all  the 
water  run  out.  When  no  more  drops  from  it,  set  your 
dish  on  the  dresser ;  remove  the  plate ;  with  a  knife  cut 
the  flattened  cabbage  into  squares,  for  the  convenience 
of  helping ;  and  serve. 

Brussels  Sprouts.  Boil  as  above,  but  drain  vseU^ 
without  squeezing.  They  may  be  accompanied  by  plain 
melted  butter,  Dutch  Sauce,  or  Matrimony  Sauce.  In 
Belgium,  the  small  cabbages  or  sprouts  are  not  esteemed 
if  of  more  than  half  an  inch  in  diameter ;  but  this,  we 
hold,  is  being  over-particular.  Brussels  sprouts  are 
most  useftil  as  winter  greens.  At  Brussels  they  are 
sometimes  served  with  a  sauce  composed  of  vinegar, 
butter,  and  nutmeg,  poured  over  them  hot  after  they 
have  been  boiled.  The  top,  says  Van  Mens,  in  a  paper 
in  the  Horticultural  Transactions^  is  very  delicate  when 
dressed,  and  quite  different  in  flavour  from  the  sprouts. 


522  VEGETABLES. 

It  is  usual  there  to  cat  off  the  top  ten  or  fifteen  days 
before  gathering  firom  the  stem. 

CauliflowerB,  Plain.  Some  cooks  serre  cauliflowers 
whole ;  this  has  two  disadvantages :  First^  thej  are 
tempted  to  send  them  to  table  underdone,  even  so  hard 
as  to  resist  the  spoon,  for  the  sake  of  retaining  their 
shapely  appearance.*  Secondly,  it  prevents  their  dis- 
lodging caterpiUars  or  small  snails,  which  will  often  enter 
them  towards  the  dose  of  summer.  It  is  better  to  cut 
them  up  into  respectably  sized  sprigs ;  they  will  thus  be 
both  equally  and  cleanlily  boiled.  Take  up  with  a 
skimmer,  drain  well,  and  pile  in  the  dish,  which  (if  the 
cauliflowers  are  to  be  served  without  sauce)  may  have  a 
false  bottom  or  strainer. 

Plain  melted  butter  or  Dutch  sauce  may  either 
accompany  them  or  be  poured  over  them. 

Broccoli^  although  cooked  and  served  in  the  same 
way  as  cauliflowers,  must  not  be  confounded  with  thenu 
They  resemble  each  other  greatly,  especially  when  only 
the  head,  or  flower,  is  seen.  The  leaves  of  broccoli  are  of 
a  deeper  green,  and  the  heads  of  a  less  pure  white^ 
than  those  of  cauliflowers ;  but.  the  grand  difference  is^ 
that  cauliflowers  are  tender — ^injured,  and  even  destroyed^ 
by  slight  jBrosts,  while  broccoli  bear  our  ordinary  (though 
not  our  severe)  winters.  Consequently,  cauliflowers 
come  to  hand  in  summer  and  autumn,  while  broccoli 

*  "  Vegetables  when  not  sufficiently  cooked  are  known  to  be  so 
exceedingly  unwholesome  and  indigestiblei  that  the  custom  of  serring 
them  crtcp,  which  means,  in  reality,  only  half  boiled,  should  be  alto- 
gether disregarded  when  health  is  considered  of  more  importance  thaa 
fashion."— £/ua  Acion, 


VEGSTABLXS.  529 

ftimish  an  earlj  winter,  spring,  and  early  summer 
supply.  It  must  be  admitted  that  the  cauliflower  is 
even  a  more  delicate  vegetable  than  th^  broccoli. 

There  are  white,  green,  and  purple  broccoli ;  the  two 
last  being  always  much  smaller,  and  also  agreeing  in 
both  hoiling  green.  Both  are  amongst  the  most  delicious 
of  vegetables.     In  Darwin's  Phytologtay  we  read : 

"  Oft  in  each  month,  poetic  Tighe  I  be  thine 
To  dish  green  broccoli  with  savoury  chine ; 
Oft  down  thj  tuneful  throat  be  thine  to  cram 
The  snow-white  cauliflower  with  fowl  and  ham !" 

The  learned  Doctor  (grandfather  of  the  author  of 
the  Origin  of  Species)  shows  his  taste  in  lauding  green 
broccoli,  undervalued  as  they  are  by  cooks  because  tliey 
do  not  dish  so  prettily  as  the  white. 

Cauliflower y  Bakedy  Ju  Boil  as  above.  When  drained 
and  piled  on  the  dish,  pour  over  them  a  small  quantity 
of  melted  butter,  good  of  the  butter ;  grate  over  them 
any  cheese  you  like  (Parmesan  is  the  real  thing),  and 
set  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven,  or,  better, 
under  a  salamander. 

Cauliflou>er,  Baked,  B  (German).  Boil  the  cauli- 
flowers, whole,  in  the  usual  way,  until  nearly  done 
enough.  Drain  well,  and  arrange  them  as  dose  together 
as  possible  on  a  dish  that  wiU  stand  the  fire.  Pour  over 
ihem  a  thick  sauce  made  of  good  broth,  butter,  flour, 
and  nutmeg,  with  egg-yolks  stirred  up  smoothly  in  it. 
Dust  over  all  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  bake 
half  an  hour  in  a  not  too  fierce  oven. 

On  serving,  the  rim  of  the  dish  (well  wiped)  may 


524  TEGETABLSS. 

be  garnished  with   slices  of  smoked  tongue  or  firied 
sausages. 

Cauliflower^  Fried.  When  the  sprigs  of  cauliflower 
are  boiled  nearly  enough,  drain  ihem  well,  dip  in  batter, 
and  fiy  to  a  light  brown  in  a  deep  pan,  with  plenty  of 
hot  fat 

Tufts  of  cauliflower,  fried  in  this  waj,  make  an 
elegant  border  round  sundry  small  dishes. 

Cabbage  and  Satisages.  When  the  cabbage  is  cooked, 
drained,  and  squeezed,  lay  it  on  a  trencher  or  broad  flat 
dish ;  chop  it  small  and  evenly,  so  that  no  lumps  or  bits 
bigger  than  others  are  left  in  it  Return  it  to  a  stew- 
pan,  and  heat  it  up  again  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  without  letting  it  fry  or  get  brown  in 
the  least  When  nicely  hot  through,  spread  it  in  the 
middle  of  your  dish,  levelling  the  top  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon,  and  on  it  arrange  your  sausages,  which  may  be 
either  boiled  or  fried ;  or  you  may  put  poached  eggs  in 
the  middle  of  your  bed  of  chopped  cabbage,  and  surround 
them  with  a  ring  of  sausages. 

Tumip'Topa  may  be  treated  either  like  cabbage, 
plain-boiled  and  squeezed,  or  chopped  and  heated  up 
again  as  before.  Some  cooks  change  the  water  in  which 
they  are  boiled,  to  moderate  the  strength  of  their  flavour. 
It  is  better  to  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  salt-and- 
water,  so  as  to  retain  their  principles,  though  in  a  less 
concentrated  form;  because  they  are  often  eaten  as 
much  to  purify  the  blood  as  for  variety's  sake.  There 
is  an  old  notion  that  turnips  generally  are  good  for 
affections  of  the  chest     Lord  Chesterfield,  the  author 


VEGETABLES.  525 

of  the  famous  Letters,  recommended  their  use  to  his 
son. 

The  season  of  turnip-tops  is  verj  short,  and  they 
must  be  taken  in  time,  before  thej  get  sticky ;  but  they 
are  useful  during  the  few  days  they  are  in  their  prime, 
since  they  come  at  a  time  when  other  greens  are 
scarce. 

Turnip-tops,  minced,  are  rendered  more  delicate  by 
mixing  them  with  other  greens  of  less  decided  flavour. 
Thus  they  are  excellent,  half  turnip-tops  and  half  any 
sort  of  cabbage  or  sprouts ;  or  they  may  be  combined  in 
the  same  proportion  with  spinach,  the  patience-dock 
(which  is  at  its  best  at  the  same  time  of  year),  or  sorrel. 
The  latter  mixture  especially  makes  a  very  agreeable 
dish  of  vegetable. 

Red  Cahboffej  Stewed,  Shred  the  cabbage  as  if  for 
pickling ;  wash  and  pick  it  carefully,  to  be  sure  that  no 
worms  or  insects  have  insinuated  themselves  between  the 
leaves.  Boil  it  tender  in  salt-and-water ;  strain  it  well, 
chop  it  fine,  and  return  it  to  the  stew-pan  with  enough 
good  stock  to  keep  it  firom  burning,  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
pinch  of  allspice.  It  will  then  be  of  a  dull  purple  colour. 
When  it  has  had  a  good  boil  up,  and  has  become  quite 
mellow,  stir  up  with  it  thoroughly  a  slight  dash  of 
vinegar,  which  will  change  its  colour  to  the  bright  red 
of  pickled  cabbage. 

Stewed  red  cabbage  is  eaten  with  sausages,  boiled 
salt  pork,  corned  or  hung  beef,  grilled  ham,  &c.  It 
is  also  a  favourite  dish  for  meager  days,  and  may 
accompany  poached  or   fiied  eggs,  salt  fish,  &c. ;  in 


^26  VXaSTABLBS. 

which  case,  batter  or  meager  broth  must  be  substituted 
for  the  stock  to  heat  it  up  iu  after  chopping. 

Savoy  CaibbageBy  Stewed  m  Cream  (Gterman).  The 
Savoys  may  be  boiled  in  water  with  a  little  salt  in  it 
until  done  enough.  Let  them  cool,  and  gently  squeeze 
the  water  out  Cut  them  in  quarters,  take  out  tiie 
thick  stalks ;  stew  the  cabbages  thoroughly,  covered 
closely,  over  a  slow  fire,  with  a  good  piece  of  washed-out 
butter,  a  little  flour  and  mace,  and  enough  cream  to 
keep  them  firom  burning. 

Hot  Slaw  (American).  Cut  cabbage  in  fine  shreds, 
boil  in  clear  water  until  perfectly  tender,  allowing  so 
little  that,  when  it  is  cooked  sufficiently,  there  will  be 
scarcely  (almost?)  none  left  in  the  spider  (stew-pan). 
Just  before  dishing,  add  to  a  common-sized  spiderftd  a 
teacup  of  sharp  vinegar,  a  piece  of  butter  half  the  size 
of  a  common  hen's  egg  [what  is  the  size  of  an  uncommon 
hen's  egg  ?] ,  a  little  salt,  and  a  dust  of  pepper ;  the  latter 
oan  be  added  at  the  table  if  desired.  Many  persons  dis- 
like pepper ;  therefore  as  little  as  will  answer  had  better 
generally  be  used  in  all  cookery.  Dish  in  extra  plates 
at  the  table. 

Cold  Slaw.  Cut  the  cabbage  (cold  cooked?)  very 
fine;  dissolve  in  a  cup  of  vinegar  a  teaspoonftd  of 
sugar,  the  same  of  salt;  add  a  little  pepper;  pour  it 
over  the  cabbage,  and  add  another  half-cup  of  vine* 

gar. 

Broccoli  (Idem).  Soak  an  hour  in  salt  water,  then 
boil  in  a  little  water  till  half  done ;  aftar  which,  add 
as  much  milk  as  water,  and  finish  cooking;  cut  it  up. 


VEGETABLES.  527 

and  season  with  butter^  salt,  and  pepper ;  or  serve  whole 
with  vinegar. 

Stuffed  Cabbages  (German).  Take  three  or  four  heads 
of  cabbage,  according  to  the  size  of  your  dish,  and 
acoop  oat  part  of  their  insides  at  the  place  of  the  stalk. 
Chop  up  a  portion  of  what  is  extracted  very  fine, 
together  with  an  onion  and  a  good  piece  of  bacon ;  add 
to  this,  and  mix  well,  six  fresh  eggs,  the  grated  cromb 
of  two  rolls,  a  little  mace,  a  good  bit  of  batter,  and  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  fresh  cream.  Fill  your  hollowed-out 
cabbages  with  this  sta£Sng,  cover  the  hole  in  each  with 
a  cabbage-leaf,  and  tie  all  tight  with  tape  or  twine 
crosswise.  Lay  them  in  a  saucepan  closely  side  by 
aide,  cover  them  well  with  good  broth,  and  boil  until 
"thoroughly  done. 

When  ready  to  serve,  take  out  each  cabbage  care- 
inlly  with  a  skimming-ladle,  lay  it  in  the  dish,  remove 
the  tape,  and  pour  over  all  either  onion  sauce  or  white 
usance  made  with  cream. 

This,  with  the  preceding  and  the  following,  are 
national  dishes  often  alluded  to  in  descriptions  of 
German  every-day  life.  Take,  for  example,  one  trait 
from  a  sketch  of  a  (German  professor :  ^^  He  is  a  curious 
being.  He  lives  in  a  poky  flat ;  his  wife  does  the  cook- 
ing and  washing;  he  is  absurd  enough  to  like  cabbage 
dressed  after  the  fashion  of  his  country ^  instead  of  eating, 
like  a  Briton,  the  simple  vegetable  as  Nature  made  it, 
and  with  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  nicely  pre- 
served in  its  dripping  leaves.''— >Stitun2ay  Betsiew^ 
March  18t&,  1865. 


528  YEGETABLES. 

Sauerkohly  Sauerhravt^  or  Sourkrouty  to  make  (Grerman). 
Shred  fine,  hard,  white-hearted  cabbages,  as  if  for  salad. 
To  preserve  or  pickle  them,  strew  over  and  amongst  them 
a  good  hand  All  of  salt  and  a  spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
putting  first  a  little  water  to  them ;  you  may  also  mix  in 
a  few  carraway  seeds.  Then  cover  the  shred  cabbage 
with  whole  leaves ;  close  the  top  of  the  vessel  with  a 
well-fitting  wooden  cover,  lay  a  stone  on  the  top,  and 
put  the  vessel  in  a  warm  place,  where  its  contents  ivill 
turn  sour.  At  the  end  of  a  week  or  so  it  will  be  ready 
for  use.  Cook  it  in  a  well-dosed  stone  or  earthen 
vessel,  with  butter,  broth,  and,  when  required,  a  dash 
of  vinegar.  Some  also  like  the  addition  of  a  large 
spoonful  of  capers  when  the  cabbage  is  nearly  done 
enough. 

Sauerkohly  with  Borsdotf  Apples*  (German).  Shred 
white,  well-hearted  cabbages  in  the  above-mentioned 
way ;  peel  half  the  quantiiy  (in  bulk)  of  apples,  cut  them 
in  slices ;  take  also  a  few  slices  of  cooked  ham ;  besmear 
the  inside  of  a  saucepan  with  butter ;  put  at  the  bottom 
a  piece  of  veal  leaf-fat  with  a  bit  of  butter  on  it,  then 
a  layer  of  shred  cabbage,  then  a  few  slices  of  lemon, 
a  bit  of  butter,  some  pounded  mace  and  pepper,  a  little 
vinegar,  then  apple  and  ham,  and  again  cabbage  and 
butter,  continually  in  layers  one  over  the  other,  until 
the  stew-pan  is  full.  Cover  the  whole  with  a  leaf  of 
Teal-fat.  Bake  well  three  hours  in  an  oven,  and  serve 
garnished  either  with  Med  sausages  or  pork  cutlets. 

*  A  smaU  yarietj,  highly  est6emed.in  Grermaiij.    Any  of  oiu;good 
cooking  apples  will  senre  as  a  substitute. 


VEGETABLES.  529 

Forcirter  Sauerkohl — Sauerkraut  in  a  hurry ^  or  a  la 
minute  (German).  Shred  the  hearts  of  cabbages  fine, 
and  set  them  on  the  fire  with  one  part  of  boiling  water 
and  two  parts  of  vinegar,  some  well-washed  carraway 
seeds,  a  good  quantity  of  fat  or  melted  bacon.  Let  it 
stew  slowly,  and  finally,  according  to  taste,  sprinkle 
a  little  sngar  over  it. 

Red  Cabbage  (German)  in  the  same  way  must  be 
shred  very  fine,  then  covered  in  an  earthen  stew-pan, 
together  with  a  tumbler  of  red  wine,  vinegar,  butter, 
and  sidt.  Stew  thoroughly  and  quite  slowly.  At  serv- 
ing, sprinkle  a  dust  of  sugar  over  it 

Sourhrout  Paid.  This  is  a  dish  of  the  Chartreuse 
dass,  in  which  more  is  meant  than  meets  the  ear. 

Stew  a  pound  and  a  quarter  of  Soufkrout  for  at 
least  three  hours  in  consomm^  or  very  good  stock,  with 
the  addition  of  a  little  smoked  bacon. 

Make  the  walls  of  your  pat6  with  paste  containing  a 
liberal  allowance  of  butter. 

Put  a  layer  of  the  Sourkrout  at  the  bottom ;  on 
this  place  a  layer  of  the  meat  cut  off  firom  a  loin  of  pork 
which  has  been  powerfully  marinaded ;  throw  in,  at 
hazard,  a  few  truffles  here  and  there ;  spread  over  these 
a  bed  of  minced  meats  of  any  kind  you  have ;  then  the 
flesh  of  one  or  two  pigeons  boned;  then  a  slight 
sprinkling  of  more  Sourkrout;  and  lastly,  your  top 
cmsi 

After  baking  in  the  dven,  pomr  down  the  chimney 
of  the  pat^  (not  of  the  oven)  some  concentrated  gravy 
aromatised  with  truffles  and  olives. 

UK 


530  VEGETABLES. 

In  this  combination,  the  Sourkront  is  so  com* 
pletelj  amalgamated  with  the  other  ingredients,  as  to 
be  no  longer  recognisable  in  its  native  condition.  It 
is  melted  into  the  general  mass ;  and  the  bitterest  enem  j 
of  the  Alsacian  preparation  mnst  be  a  clever  fellow  to 
discover  its  presence  by  his  unaided  palate. — M.  Saziva^ 
ff early  Advocate  and  Unmarried  Gentleman^  Visan. 

Stuffed  Onums  (German).  Choose  the  largest  onions^ 
as  many  as  you  want;  peel,  and  boil  them  in  water 
until  done  enough.  Then  take  out  their  insides,. 
leaving  only  a  few  of  the  outer  coats  remaining.. 
Drain  well  the  portion  extracted,  and  chop  it  small» 
Mix  this  up  with  a  good  piece  of  butter,  a  few  raw  eggs,, 
and  bread-crumbs  soaked  in  milL  Stuff  with  it  the 
hollowed  onions.  Lay  them  in  a  tart-pan  which  has- 
been  previously  greased  with  butter  and  lined  with 
paper.  Bake  them,  if  possible,  with  fire  over  as  well 
as  under  them. 

For  sauce,  take  broth,  butter,  flour,  chopped 
parsley,  mace,  and  stir  together  over  the  fire  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  yolks  of  a  few  eggs.  Pour  it  hot 
over  the  onions  when  ready  to  serve. 

Cooked  Cucumbers.  Peel,  cut  them  into  quartern 
lengthwise,  take  away  the  seeds,  and  stew  in  butter  until 
quite  tender.  On  serving,  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and 
ponnded  mace.  A  portion  of  the  juice  lenuuning  in  the- 
saucepan  may  be  thickened  and  poured  over  them. 

Stt^ed  Cucumbers  (G^ermfln).  Peel  them  whole, 
scoop  out  the  seeds  at  the  stalk-end,  and  fill  up  thei 
hollow  with  a  stuffing  composed  of  minced  cold  veal^ 


VEGETABLKS.  531 

bread-cmmbs  in  small  qnantifyy  egg,  and  finely  chopped 
lemon-peel.  Wrap  portions  of  your  remaining  stuffing' 
in  vine-leaves,  tjdng  up  each  separately  with  thread. 
Put  butter  at  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  lay  your  stuffed 
cucumbers  and  rolled  vine-leaves  side  by  side,  together 
with  mace,  pepper,  and  chopped  onions.  Cover  with 
good  broth,  and  stew  gently  till  well  done.  Take  ihem 
oarefoUy  out  of  the  broth,  and  arrange  them  on  a  dish. 
Beduce  and  thicken  the  broth  by  boiling  down ;  strain, 
and  pour  very  hot  over  the  cucumbers  and  the  stuffing 
in  vine-leaves. 

Stewed  Endwe*  Out  each  head  roughly  into  halves 
or  quarters,  according  to  size.  Half-cook  them  in  water, 
and  then  strain  it  away.  Then  rub  a  little  baked  flour 
into  some  broth,  pouring  in  the  latter  gradually,  so  as 
to  keep  the  whole  smooth ;  add  a  little  butter  and  grated 
nutmeg,  and  stew  the  endive  in  it  until  fit  to  serve. 
Well-hearted  Cabbage-lettiicee  may  be  dressed  in  exactly 
the  same  way. 

Gray  Peaae^  xoitk  Sweet  and  Sour  Sauce  (Grerman). 
Soak  the  pease  all  night  in  soft  water,  and  boil  them 
three  or  four  hours,  till  tender,  in  as  little  water  as  will 
keep  them  from  burning. 

For  the  Sauce,  thicken  a  little  of  the  water  in  whid^ 
the  pease  were  boiled  with  two  spoonfals  of  flour.  Add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  treacle,  and  a  dessert-spoonM 
of  vinegar.  Let  it  boil  up,  and  then  throw  in  some 
fried  bacon  cut  into  diamonds,  and  one  or  two  finely 
sliced  fried  onions. 

CauliflowerB  with  Tomato  Sauce.    Boil  your  caoli-^ 


I 


532  VEGETABLES. 

flowers  tender;  let  them  drain  a  minute  or  two  in  a 
cnllender  placed  over  the  boiler  in  which  thej  were 
cooked,  to  keep  them  hoi  Then  arrange  ihem  on  a 
hot  dish.  Have  readj  some  rich  melted  butter,  with 
plenty  of  cream  or  butter  in  it.  Stir  into  this  a  liberal 
allowance  of  bottled  tomato  sauce,  and  as  soon  as  it 
begins  to  boil  up,  pour  it  over  your  cauliflowers. 

Glazed  Turnips.  Peel  small  turnips  thick,  and 
make  them  similar  in  size  and  shape.  Scald  them 
five  minutes  in  water  boiling  galloping.  Then  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  to  finish  cooking  with  strong 
veal  stock,  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  three  or  four 
lumps  of  sugar.  When  tender,  arrange  them  on  a 
dish;  add  a  little  browning  to  your  sauce,  reduce  it, 
and  pour  it  boiling  over  the  turnips. 

Sea-kale  is  a  truly  British  dish.  M.  Yilmorin,  in 
the  Bon  Jardinier^  bqjs  of  it :  ^^  Excellent  vegetable^ 
indigenous,  largely  cultivated  in  England,  and  deserving 
equal  attention  in  France.  It  is  a  plant  nearly  related 
to  the  Cabbages,  but  whose  perennial  root  produces 
every  year  firesh  leaves  and  shoots.  These  annual  shoots, 
blanched  Gcom  the  outset  of  their  development  by  a 
process  which  we  are  about  to  indicate,  constitute  its 
produce." 

Some  of  our  garden  vegetables  are  of  high  antiquity ; 
asparagus  was  a  favourite  vegetable  with  Cato,  and 
onions  are  inscrutable.  Others  are  quite  modem  up« 
starts ;  one  of  which  is  sea-kale.  On  many  parts  of 
the  south  coast,  the  inhabitants,  firom  time  immemorial, 
have  been  in  the  habit  of  searching  for  it  in  spring  in 


.TKGETABLES.  533 

spots  where  it  grows  spontaneously,  and  cutting  off  the 
young  and  tender  leaves  and  stalks,  as  yet  unexpanded, 
and  in  a  blanched  state,  dose  to  the  crown  of  the  root. 
Evelyn,  confounding  it  with  "  the  broccoli  from  Naples, 
perhaps  the  lialmerida  of  Pliny  [or  Athenasus  rather], 
capUaia  marina  etfloriiay^  mentions  that  ^^  our  sea-keele, 
the  ancient  crambe^  and  growing  on  our  coast,  are  very 
delicate."     But  its  cultivation  is  quite  a  recent  practice. 

Mr.  Curtis,  in  his  ^^  Directions  for  Cultivating  the 
Crambe  maritima,  or  Sea-kale"  (1799),  tells  us :  "  Mr. 
William  Jones,  of  Chelsea,  saw  bundles  of  it,  in  a  culti- 
vated state,  exposed  for  sale  in  Chichester  market,  in 
the  year  1753.  I  learn  from  different  persons  that 
attempts  have  been  made  at  various  times  to. introduce 
it  to  the  London  markets,  hut  meff^ectuaUy.  A  few 
years  since,  I  renewed  the  attempt  myself,  and,  though 
it  was  not  attended  vrith  all  the  mcceaa  I  could  have  unshedy 
I  flatter  myself  it  has  been  the  means  of  making  the 
plant  so  generally  known,  that  in  friture  the  markets 
of  the  first  ciiy  in  the  world  will  be  duly  supplied  with 
this  most  desirable  article." 

Taste  and  fashion  have  greatly  changed  since  then. 
The  faint  acceptance  has  altered  to  a  brisk  demand. 
At  present,  the  quantity  of  sea-kale  annually  sold 
amounts  to  a  very  considerable  sum;  for  when  good, 
it  is  never  cheap.  Low-priced  sea-kale,  as  a  rule,  is 
either  imperfectly  blanched  or  run  up  o'  legs ;  in  which 
case,  it  is  hardly  worth  the  cooking. 

Sea-kale^  Boiled  White*  From  the  time  of  cutting 
to  cooking,  keep  it   in  a  dark  place ;  a  close,  damp 


534  VEGETABLES. 

cellar  is  perfecdj  suitable.  The  action  of  light  gra- 
doallj  greens  it^  spoiling  both  its  appearance  and 
.flavour.  This  change  for  the  worse  may  be  observed 
,in  sea-kale  which  has  been  exposed  in  open  shops  for 
.several  successive  days. 

Wash  it  well,  to  clear  out  any  earth  or  sand  that 
may  have  fidlen  between  the  tips  of  each  shoot ;  cut  out 
decayed  or  worm-eaten  spots;  tie  it  in  small  bundles 
of  two  or  three  shoots  each,  for  the  convenience  of 
taking  up;  and  let  it  lie,  covered  with  a  board  or  lid, 
in  a  pail  of  cold  water  till  cooking  time  comes.  Then 
throw  the  little  bundles  of  kale  into  a  saucepan  with 
plenty  of  boiling  water,  in  which  a  little  salt  has  been 
dissolved. 

It  is  as  well  to  repeat  that  Sir  Humphrey  Davy 
explains  that  the  reason  why  vegetables  and  fish  should 
be  cooked  by  plunging  them  in  hoUing  salt-and-water  is, 
that  this  solution  boils  at  a  higher  temperature  than 
plain  water,  and  that  the  sudden  scalding  fixes  the 
albumine,  mucilage,  and  other  nutritive  parts  of  the 
viand,  instead  of  their  being  macerated  and  sodden, 
and  so  partly  lost,  in  lukewarm  water. 

Keep  the  water  boiling  galloping.  In  twenty 
minutes  or  a  little  more,  according  to  its  age  and  firesh- 
ness,  the  sea-kale  will  be  done  enough,  which  may  be 
known  by  trying  it  with  a  fork.  Take  care  to  let  it 
be  done  enough.  The  usual  mode  of  serving  is  to  pile 
it,  like  asparagus,  on  sippets  of  toasted  bread  previously 
dipped  in  the  kale-boilings  (if  the  kale  is  perfectly 
blanched,  and  the  water  consequently  remains   dear 


VB6STABLES.  535 

and  colourless;  otherwise,  not),  and  to  ponr  over  it 
some  white  sauoe,  or  melted  batter  made  with  milk 
instead  of  water. 

If  allowed  to  get  a  little  too  forward,  or  if  light  has 
been  admitted  to  it  before  cuttiDg,  sea-kale  is  apt  to 
contract  a  slight  bitterness, — ^which,  however,  is  not 
disagreeable  to  every  taste.  For  those  who  dislike  it, 
it  may  be  considerably  diminished,  if  not  entirely  re- 
medied, by  transferring  the  kale,  when  half-cooked, 
£rom  one  saucepan  of  boiling  salt-and-water  to  ano- 
ther. 

Sea^hale^  Boiled  Browuy  or  Stewed.  Boil  it  as  before 
till  three-parts  done ;  take  it  up,  drain  well,  and  cook 
it  till  quite  tender  in  as  little  good  stock  as  will  cover 
it,  to  which  you  may  add  any  roast-beef,  roast-veal,  or 
other  good  brown  gravy  you  may  have  at  hand.  Add 
also  a  little  browning,  or  a  bit  of  burnt  onion.  When 
done,  arrange  the  sea-kale  on  slices  of  toast.  If  the 
gravy  is  still  thin,  reduce  it  by  boiling  a  few  minutes 
longer,  or  thicken  with  a  dust  of  flour  or  arrowroot ; 
season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  give  a  final  boil, 
and  pour  it  hot  over  the  sea-kale. 

Seonkale  h  la  Poivrade.  Cold  boiled  sea-kale  (white), 
•dressed  with  pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar — ^those  seasonings 
should  be  applied  to  it  in  the  above-named  order — ^is  a 
very  wholesome  and  agreeable  accompaniment  to  cold 
fowl  or  other  meats  with  which  sliced  cucumber  is 
usually  served. 

Stewed  CeUry,  White.  Trim  off  all  the  coarse  out- 
side leaves ;  wash  and  pick  carefiilly,  to  get  rid  of  any 


536  y£OETABLES« 

grit  that  may  have  insinuated  itself;  let  it  lie  in  oold 
water  an  hour  or  two,  and  then  boil  (about  half  an  hour) 
in  salt-and-waten  When  a  fork  will  penetrate  it  easily, 
it  is  done.  File  it  neatlj  in  your  vegetable-dish,  and 
pour  over  it  a  thick  white  sauce,  rich  with  cream  or 
butter. 

Stewed  Celery^  Brounu  Proceed  exactly  as  with 
Sea-kale,  Brown. 

Fried  Celery.  Boil  it  till  half-cooked  or  a  little 
more ;  take  it  out,  and  let  it  drain  well  on  a  napkin. 
Dip  it  in  batter,  and  firy  to  a  Ught  brown.  This  dish, 
if  well  done,  is  excellent ;  but  it  is  useless  to  attempt  it 
without  a  deep  frying-pan,  and  plenty  of  oil  or  fat  to 
plunge  it  into. 

Celery  has  the  reputation  of  being  stimulant  in  its 
nature ;  still,  delicate  stomachs  find  a  difficulty  in 
digesting  it  raw.  But  although  it  loses  a  portion  of  its 
medicinal  properties  by  cooking,  epicures  think  it  wise 
not  to  forget  that  it  is  an  aromatic,  heating,  stomachic, 
tonic  vegetable,  and  has  consequently  a  tendency  to 
produce  excitement.  The  Almanack  dee  Gourmands 
relieves  its  conscience  by  warning  timorous  young 
gentlemen  of  its  stimulant  qualities,  in  order  that  they 
may  abstain  from  it,  and  not  be  led  into  making  rash 
ofiers  of  marriage.  For  the  same  reason,  it  is  not  the 
salad  to  recommend  to  old  bachelors  who  wish  to  re- 
main so. 

Ude  agrees  with  this,  in  opining  that  Celery  is  a 
very  heating,  but  easily  digested,  vegetable ;  it  will  be 
found,  however,  of  great  use  in  cookery,  as  it  is  to  be 


YEGETABLES.  537 

seen  in  so  many  preparations, — soups,  salads,  sauces, 
and  entremets  of  all  descriptions. 

Artichokes  (which  enjoy  a  wide-spread  medicinal  and 
anti-rheumatic  reputation)  are  commonly  eaten  Baw  in 
France,  as  a  salad  or  relish,  thus :  The  eater  makes  upon 
his  plate  a  mixture  of  pepper,  oil,  vinegar,  and  salt, 
commonly  called  a  Poivrade.  He  then  takes  the  arti- 
choke in  his  left  hand,  holding  it  by  the  top  or  the  tips 
of  the  leaves,  and  with  the  knife  in  his  right  hand  he 
cuts  successively  from  the  bottom  very  ihin  slices,  to 
each  of  which  is  attached  a  leaf.  Then,  holding  the  leaf 
between  his  finger  and  thumb,  he  dips  the  sliced  bottom 
into  the  poivradey  and  duly  masticates  it  as  he  would 
uncooked  celery,  radishes,  and  the  like ;  and  it  is  not  a 
bit  more  wholesome  or  digestible.  This  "  Receipt"  for 
Maw  Artichokes  is  given  in  the  belief  that  (without 
ofience)  it  may  enlighten  a  few  of  our  countrymen. 
The  Doctor  would  have  been  glad  to  see  it  in  his  younger 
days.  The  first  time  he  ordered  an  artichoke  in  a 
Paris  reatauranty  the  waiter  brought  him  a  raw  one^  as  a 
matter  of  course ;  and  lie  did  not  know  what  to  do  with  it. 

Artiohohesj  Plain-Boiled.  Tlirow  them  into  plenty 
of  boiling  salt-and-water,  and  let  them  gallop  away 
until  quite  tender.  Full  a  leaf;  if  it  comes  away  easily, 
ihey  are  done  enough.  Full-grown,  forward  artichokes 
will  take  about  thrice  as  long  to  boil  as  those  which  are 
yomig  and  tender;  it  would  therefore  be  absurd  to 
attempt  to  state  the  number  of  minutes  required  to  cook 
them. 

Boiling  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  water  helps  to 


<538  VEGETABLES. 

remove  their  bitterness — a  quality  which  is  crften  more 
str(»igly  developed  in  autumnal  than  in  summer  arti- 
•chokes.  When  quite  tender,  serve  them  either  in  a 
vegetable-dish  with  a  strainer  at  the  bottom,  or  arranged 
neatly  upon  a  napkin. 

Melted  butter,  or  oiled  butter,  is  commonly  served 
with  them ;  in  default  of  which,  a  dust  of  salt  makes  an 
excellent  seasoning.  Cold  Boiled  Artidiokes  are  very  nice 
and  wholesome,  eaten  with  a  little  pepper,  oil,  and  vinegar. 

There  is  another  way  of  cooking  them,  which  leaves 
more  of  their  natural  flavour,  and  consequently  is  pre- 
ferred by  some.  After  washing  well  and  shortening 
the  stems,  remove  the  small  outer  leaves  at  the  bottom, 
and  trim  the  artichokes  as  small  as  possible  by  cutting 
off  the  tips  of  the  rest  of  the  leaves.  Put  them  in  a 
stew-pan  topsy-turvy,  with  no  more  water  than  will 
eover  them,  to  which  you  will  add  both  pepper  and  salt* 
Close  the  lid  down  tight  by  the  help  of  a  linen  cloth,  to 
keep  in  all  the  steam  you  can. 

Artichokes  are  much  more  generally  used  on  the 
Continent  than  they  are  in  England.  They  are  grown 
on  a  large  scale  in  the  market-gardens;  and  are  sold 
ready-boiled  in  numerous  shops  in  Paris,  covered  with 
•doths  to  keep  them  hot. 

Stewed  Arlichoke-'BoUoms.  Boil  as  before.  When 
done  (not  too  much),  remove  the  leaves  and  the  woolly 
portion  (the  flowers)  called  the  "  choke,"*  and  trim  the 
imder-side  of  the  bottoms  neatly,  peeling  away  any 
fibres  that  may  have  imited  them  to  the  stem. 

•  French  cooks  call  it  theybin,  or  **  hay." 


VEGETABLES.  539 

Have  ready  some  rich,  brown,  well-seasoned  gravy  ; 
stew  the  bottoms  in  this  a  quarter  of  an  honr  or  so ; 
arrange  them  in  yonr  dish  with  a  spoon,  and  ponr  the 
.gravy  over  them. 

The  artichoke-bottoms  may  be  prepared  the  day 
before ;  they  can  then  be  served  stewed  at  a  quarter  of 
an  hour's  notice. 

This  makes  an  elegant  and  agreeable  dish ;  but,  to 
£11  it  adequately,  a  good  many  of  the  bottoms  are 
required;  which  (as  the  leaves  are  likewise  rejected) 
makes  it  come  expensive,  except  in  neighbourhoods 
where  artichokes  are  plentiful  and  cheap,  or  not  appre- 
ciated by  the  residents:  for  the  Doctor  has  known 
artichokes  to  be  thrown  away  by  people  who  did  not 
appreciate  or  understand  them. 

Fried  Artichoke-Bottams,  Boll  as  before;  taking 
ihem  up  just  a  little  undergone.  Set  aside  to  drain, 
and  cooL 

Dip  them  in  batter ;  or  flour,  egg-yolk,  and  bread- 
crumb them ;  and  then  fiy  them  to  a  light  brown,  in 
plenty  of  boiling  oil  or  fat  Serve  piled  in  the  centre  of 
a  dish ;  you  may  sprinkle  them  with  a  very  little  finely 
powdered  salt.  This  is  a  very  elegant,  light,  and  palat- 
able mode  of  dressing,  but,  like  the  preceding,  is  not 
economical 

Batter  far  Frying  Vegetables  or  Fritters.  Into  the 
quantity  of  water  you  are  likely  to  want,  stir  as  much 
flour  as  will  bring  it  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Then  add  a  little  salt,  a  table-spoonful  of  olive-oil,  and 
half  as  much  again  of  good  brandy.     Beat  up  all  weU 


540  VEGETABLES. 

togeiher,  and,  just  before  you  are  going  to  make  use  of 
it,  add  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  up  to  froth. 

When  the  batter  is  to  be  employed  for  sweet  dishes — 
as  apple,  pear,  or  peach  fritters,  &c-r-put  in  less  salt, 
and  add  a  little  sugar. 

Fried  Artichokes.  Cut  them  into  six  or  eight  pieces, 
according  to  their  size ;  take  away  the  choke  and  the 
largest  outside  leaves,  and  cut  off  the  tips  of  those  which 
you  leave.  Wash  them  well  in  two  or  three  waters; 
drain  them,  and  dip  them  into  batter  made  of  flour, 
cream,  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Fry  them  in  plenty  of  oil  or 
sweet  pork-lard.  As  you  take  them  out  of  the  frying- 
pan,  sprinkle  them  with  a  dust  of  finely  pounded  salt, 
and  di«h  them  on  a  bed  of  fried  parsley. 

Artichoke^Bottoms  a  ritalienne.  Boil  and  prepare 
the  bottoms  as  in  the  preceding  receipts,  leaving  them  a 
little  underdone. 

Chop  a  few  onions  very  small ;  brown  them  in  butter; 
mix  them,  without  mashing  them,  with  equal  quantities 
of  grated  bread-crumbs  and  grated  cheese.  Fill  the 
artichoke-bottoms  with  this  mixture,  piling  it  up;  set 
them  in  the  oven  to  brown ;  and  serve  hot  without  any 
sauce,  but  accompanied  by  a  lemon  to  squeeze  over 
them. 

The  Jerusalem  Artichoke^  the  Helianthus  tvberosusy  or 
Tvberow-rooted  .SunAower J  is  really  a  native  of  BraziL 
The  cooks,  therefore,  who  dignify  Jerusalem-Artichoke 
Soup  with  the  tide  o{  Palestine  Soup,  are  a  littie  abroad 
in  their  kitchen  geography.  The  name  ^^  Jerusalem'^  is 
probably  a  corruptipn  of  the  Italian  ffirasole,  or  turn-sun, 


VEGETABLES*  541 

t.  e.  sunflower ;  the  usurped  name  ^^  artichoke"  (to  which 
it  has  no  right  whatever)  has  reference  to  its  flavour. 

The  great  point  in  preparing  Jerusalem  Artichokes 
(after  washing  them)  for  cooking  is,  to  have  a  basin  of 
pump-water  at  hand,  while  peeling  them,  to  throw  the 
raw  artichokes  in,  one  by  one,  as  soon  as  thej  are  peeled. 
This  keeps  the  cut  surface  from  contact  with  the  air^ 
and  prevents  its  turning  black,  as  it  would  otherwise  do ; 
exactly  as  a  pared  apple  turns  brown* 

Jerusalem  Artichokes j  Boiled.  Throw  them  into  boil- 
ing salt-and-water ;  if  large,  from  twenty  to  five-and- 
tweniy  minutes  will  mostly  do  them ;  if  small,  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.  When  dished,  pour  over  them  a  rich  White 
Sauce,  exactly  like  that  for  celery. 

Jerusalem  Artichokesy  Mashed.  Boil  a  little  longer 
than  for  serving  whole ;  then  mash  them,  like  Turnips, 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  cream  or  butter ;  but  they  are  less 
easy  than  turnips  to  mash  smooth  and  free  from  lumps. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes^  Fried.  Small  ones  may  be 
fried  whole;  large  ones  must  be  divided  into  two  or 
three.  Boil  them  half  the  time  required  to  cook  them ; 
let  them  drain  and  cooL  Dip  them  in  batter ;  or  smear 
them  with  egg  and  cover  with  bread-crumbs.  Fiy  them 
to  a  clear,  light  brown.  They  will  be  very  poor,  if  there 
is  any  scant  of  fat  to  fry  them  in.  When  well  done, 
they  are  thus  converted  into  a  sort  of  Fritter  or  BeigneL 

As  a  table-root,  it  must  be  confessed  that  some  per- 
sons dislike  them  much ;  while  others,  like  Soyer,  are  as 
fond  of  them. 

The  Jerusalem  Artichoke,  he  writes,  is  one  of  the 


544  TEGSIABLES. 

several  pleaaant  zoots  (Mr.  Ddamer  observes),  of  wUdi 
Salsify  (or  Goat's  Beard,  Tragopogcn  pan^cilium)  is  one, 
which  are  rarelj  cuItiTafted  in  England — ^although  their 
cnltnre  is  of  the  easiest— €xcq»t  in  aristocratic  gaidens, 
bat  which  are  seen  in  abnndanoeon  the  Continent,  in  the 
markets  of  every  small  town  and  village.  The  others  are 
SeoTzanera^  CMoory^  and  SkirreU;  the  latter  being  the 
less  common.*  Thej  are  all  served  either  separately, 
plain-boiled,  and  then  covered  with  white  sauce ;  or  they 
are  made  to  enter  largely  into  the  composition  of  such 
dishes  as  beef  &  la  mode,  harriooed  mutton,  ragoiits,  ^, 
in  the  same  way  as  young  carrots,  asparagus-tops,  and 
green  pease  are  used  in  summer.  Jn  either  condition, 
they  afford  an  agreeable  and  salutary  variety  to  our  list 
of  winter  vegetables;  and  they  are  all  so  easy  of  culture 
and  so  hardy,  that  they  deserve  to  be  brought  forward 
out  of  their  present  state  of  neglect,  especially  as  they 
were  not  always  so  much  despised  and  forgotten  in 
Great  Britain.  Skirrets,  particularly,  were  formerly 
much  esteemed  in  cookery.  In  the  north  of  Scotland, 
they  were  (and  may  be  still,  unless  driven  out  by  the 
intrusive  potato)  cultivated  under  the  name  of  ^^  crum- 
mocks.'* 

The  stalks  of  over-year's  plants  of  salsify  are  some- 
times cut  in  the  spring,  when  about  four  or  five  inches 
high,  and  dressed  like  asparagus.  In  this  way  they 
make  so  sweet  and  delicate  a  dish,  that  it  may  be  set 

*  In  1683,  Worledge  declared  them  to  be  the  Bweetesty  whitest,  and 
most  pleasant  of  roots.  Indeed,  their  sweefnesff  is  so  decided  as  to  be 
objected  to  by  some. 


YBOXTABLES.  545 

before  an  intelligent  epionre  as  a  puzzle,  with  the  re- 
quest that  he  will  guess  what  plant  it  is. 

Scorzonera^  or  Spanish  Salsify^  Boiled  cr  Friedy  with 
exactly  the  same  treatment  as  that  for  Salsify. 

The  name  of  this  ezoellent  root  is  derived  from  two 
Spanish  words,  scorza — root,  and  nera — ^black ;  and  the 
uninviting  colour  of  the  outer  rind  greatly  restricts  its 
general  use.  Housekeepers  do  not  like  to  waste  their 
time  in  scraping  it ;  but  in  the  markets  of  most  large 
towns  in  France,  Scorzonera  may  be  bought  ready 
cleaned  for  cooking. 

Scorzonera  differs  from  salsify  in  not  being  fit  for 
use  till  the  second  year;  and  so  far  the  progress  of  its 
vegetation  is  remarkable.  Other  esculent  roots,  after 
having  flowered  and  ripened  their  seed,  become  tough, 
woody,  and  uneatable ;  but  scorzonera,  sown  in  spring  in 
rich  soil,  quickly  forms  its  long,  straight  roots,  without 
putting  forth  any  ramifications.  The  majority  of  the 
plants  display  their  yellow  flowers,  and  subsequently  bear 
seed.  If  those  plants  were  taken  up  theuy  they  would 
be  found  so  stringy  as  to  be  useless  for  the  table ;  but  in 
the  spring  of  the  following  year,  the  fibres  have  dis- 
appeared, the  roots  become  fleshy,  tender,  and  full  of 
milky  juice,  exactly  as  they  were  before  flowering ;  and 
they  continue  to  increase  in  size,  without  losing  their 
good  qualities. — Delamer. 

Chicory^Boots  are  eaten  on  the  Continent,  in  the  same 
way  as  Salsify  and  Scorzonera.  They  are  more  bitter 
and  less  delicate  in  flavour ;  but  they  have  the  merit  of 
yielding  a  larger  crop,  and  afford  a  considerable  supply 

NN 


546  TBOETABLES. 

of  wholeflome  nntriment  to  palates  once  accustomed  to  its 
tasta 

Chioory^Leavesj  BlasuJied^  as  a  winter  salad — and 
they  make  an  excellent  one.     See  the  next  Chapter. 

CarrotSy  Stewed.  A  spring  or  early  summer  dish  of 
vegetables.  Take  young  short-horn  carrots,  that  have 
been  grown  in  a  frame,  when  they  are  about  the  size  of 
walnuts.  The  fresher  gathered  they  are,  the  better ;  re- 
quest the  gardener  to  cut  off  the  green  tops  immediately 
they  are  drawn  out  of  the  ground.  Cut  off  their  tails ; 
ecrapey  not  peel  them,  leaving  them  in  their  natural 
shape ;  throw  them  into  cold  water  until  you  cook  thenu 

Put  your  carrots  into  a  stew-pan,  and  more  than 
cover  them  with  good  veal  or  beef  stock,  duly  seasoned 
with  salt,  spice,  herbs,  and  vegetables.  Keep  the  lid  on 
the  stew-pan  tiU  it  boils,  then  finish  cooking  the  carrots 
(which  will  take  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour) 
with  the  lid  off,  in  order  to  reduce  the  stock  by  evapora- 
tion. When  its  quantity  is  much  diminished,  stir  now 
and  then,  to  prevent  burning,  and  to  cook  the  carrots 
equally. 

When  quite  tender,  transfer  the  carrots  with  a  spoon 
to  a  deep  vegetable-dish ;  if  the  sauce  is  sufficiently  thick 
and  savoury,  pour  it  over  them  at  once.  If  not,  bring 
it  to  your  taste  with  a  little  browning  and  seasoning ; 
but  a  rich  gravy  is  all  that  you  require,  as  it  is  not  de- 
sirable to  overpower  the  delicate  flavour  of  young  frame- 
grown  carrots. 

Carrots  h  la  Minaffh*e— Housekeeper^ 8  Carrots.  Take 
carrots,  stiU  young,  but  nearly  full-grown,  and  before 


y£GETABLES.  547 

ihej  get  old  and  sticky.     Peel  them  lengthwise ;  wash 
them  in  cold  water. 

Take  a  stew-pan  half-full  of  any  good  broth  or 
nnthickened  soup ;  add  a  glass  of  common  white  wine, 
or  a  tumbler  of  cider;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  mace, 
and  bouquet  complete.  Slice  your  carrots  thin  into  this 
liquor ;  stew  them  till  tender ;  then  arrange  them  on  your 
•dish.  Thicken  the  liquor  with  a  lump  of  butter  worked 
an  flour;  add  a  little  browning.  When  all  is  smooth 
and  thoroughly  combined,  boil  up  and  pour  it  over  the 
<»rrot8. 

This,  although  not  so  good, — ^because  not  such  a 
noveliy  as  the  preceding, — ^is  excellent  either  as  a  simple 
dish  of  vegetable,  or  to  accompany  any  kind  of  boiled 
meat  In  the  latter  case,  it  will  be  improved  by  a  dash 
of  either  gherkin,  caper,  or  tarragon  vinegar. 

CarroU  (md  Creanu  Boil  your  carrots  (whole)  in 
ivater,  without  sweet  herbs  or  other  seasoning,  until  they 
^are  tender.  Then  put  into  a  stew-pan  a  cupful  of  cream 
and  a  lump  of  good  &esh  butter.  Slice  your  carrots 
across  into  this,  and  let  them  stew  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Arrange  the  carrots  on  your  dish ;  thicken  the 
-cream  with  egg-yolk  or  arrowroot;  pour  it  over  them, 
and  serve. 

Green  Peaae,  French  Fashion,  When  the  pease  are 
shelled,  do  not  wash  them,  but  pick  them  over  carefully 
by  rolling  them,  a  few  at  a  time,  on  a  flat  dish  or  plate, 
to  remove  any  worm-eaten  pease  or  other  impurities. 
Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  lump  of  butter ;  as  it 
melts,  stir  the  pease  in  it  till  their  surfaces  are  completely 


548  YEOETABLES. 

oiled  with  it  Then  add  a  boncli  of  paralej  and  three  or 
fonr  small  onions ;  let  them  stew  slowlj,  doselj  covered 
with  the  lid  of  the  stew-pan.  When  nearly  done,  seasim 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dust  of  sngar.  Let  them  stew 
till  qnite  tender,  and  almost  fidling  to  a  mash.  Before 
serving,  remove  the  bunch  of  parsley  only. 

'N.B.  Some  cooks,  when  uncertain  who  shelled  the 
pease,  do  wash  them  in  as  little  water  as  will  cover  them, 
skhnming  off  the  dust,  Ac  as  they  rise  to  the  snr&oe 
of  the  water.  They  say  it  is  the  only  way  of  effectually 
getting  rid  of  them.  They  then  carefiilly  dry  the  pease 
in  a  napkin.  The  onions,  also,  are  often  omitted ;  or  the 
hearts  of  lettuces  are  substituted  for  them :  the  main 
principle  of  this  mode  of  cooking  being,  that  the  pease 
are  stewed  in  their  own  sap^  which,  and  the  steam  arising 
from  it,  are  retained  by  the  butter  varnishing  and  stopping 
the  pores  of  the  skin.  This  method  has  the  further 
advantage  of  subduing  the  hardness  of  not  very  young 
pease,  without  losing  the  juices  of  the  younger  ones  that 
may  happen  to  be  mixed  with  them. 

Green  Pease j  English  Fashion.  These  you  may  wash ; 
but  not  in  more  water,  nor  leaving  them  longer  in  it^ 
than  necessaiy. 

Drain  them  well  in  cullender ;  throw  them  into  little 
more  boiling  water  than  will  cover  them.  Put  into  the 
water  a  small  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  lump  of  sugar  (if  the 
pease  are  not  of  a  sweet  variety),  and,  if  the  water  is 
hard,  half  as  much  carbonate  of  soda  as  will  lie  on  a  six- 
pence. Boil  galloping  with  the  lid  off.  The  addition  of 
a  sprig  of  mint  is  a  matter  of  taste ;  it  is  appropriate  if 


YEOETABLBS.  549 

the  pease  are  to  accompany  lamb,  calf's  head,  or  other 
meat  eaten  with  any  kind  of  sweet-herb  sauce.  But,  as 
some  persons  dislike  mint,  the  head  of  the  house  should 
be  consulted  respecting  its  use. 

Pease  cooked  in  this  way  must  not  be  overdone, 
otherwise  their  sweetness  goes  into  the  water.  When 
tender,  drain  the  water  away  from  them ;  transfer  them 
firom  the  cullender  to  a  ^ery  hx>t  vegetable  dish ;  stick  in 
amongst  them  a  lump  of  butter,  and,  as  it  melts,  stir 
them  about  a  little  with  a  spoon  warmed  by  plunging  it 
into  boiling  water.  Some  serve  the  sprigs  of  boiled  mint 
together  with  the  peas ;  they  are  unsightly,  but  indicate 
the  flavour  which  predominates. 

Besides  the  English  varieties  of  pease,  early  and  late,, 
which  are  excellent,  first-rate  indeed, — and  new  ones, 
at  least  in  name,  are  annually  raised  by  our  gardeners, — 
there  are  races  of  kitchen  pease,  less  known  in  Eng- 
land  than  on  the  Continent,  namely,  the  Sugar  Pease, 
the  Zuckererbse  of  the  Germans,  and  the  Pais  sans 
parchemm^  Skinless  Pease,  and  Mange-tout^  Eat-alls,  of 
the  French.  In  these,  the  peaahell  is  imusually  de- 
veloped in  fleshiness,  succulence,  and  sweetness.  As 
the  inner  lining  of  skin  and  the  stringy  fibres  are 
also  wanting  in  the  best  varieties,  the  peascod&  of 
these  are  cooked  entire  or  divided,  as  we  cook  French 
Beans,  only  slowly  stewed  for  a  long  time  in  butter  or 
gravy. 

Those  who  have  a  garden,  and  cannot  procure  Sugar 
Pease  at  market,  can  grow  them  as  easily  as  any  other 
kind  of  pea. 


550  VEGETABLES. 

The  Peashells  of  our  ordinaiy  pease  maj  be  made  to 
render  service  in  two  quite  different  ways. 

Peashell  Browning^  for  Soups,  After  shelling  pease, 
select  the  cleanest,  plumpest,  and  most  uninjured  of  the 
shells.  Put  a  single  layer  of  them  (as  dose  together  as 
you  please,  but  not  heaped)  on  an  iron  plate,  such  as 
you  bake  cakes  on.  Set  them  into  a  slow  oven,  of  such 
a  temperature  as  to  dry  and  hrown^  without  burning  or 
charring  them.  This  may  also  be  done  in  an  American 
oven  before  the  fire ;  but  in  either  case  it  requires  time 
and  patient  watching.  When  done,  they  will  keep  in  a 
dry  doset.  Half  a  dozen  or  more  of  these  browned  pea- 
shells,  thrown  into  soup  or  broth  while  cooking,  will  not 
only  impart  a  nice  golden  hue,  but  also  be  an  improve- 
ment to  its  flavour. 

Peashell  Purie^  for  Soups  and  Stews.  AAer  shelling- 
pease,  reject  any  of  the  shells  that  are  dirty,  bruised,  or 
otherwise  injured.  Wash  the  rest  in  a  pail  of  water ; 
first  pour  off  the  foreign  matters  that  rise  to  the  top,  then 
transfer  the  peashells  to  a  boiler ;  cover  them  with  cold 
spring-water,  with  a  spoonful  of  salt  in  it,  and  boil 
slowly  for  an  hour  or  more,  with  care  that  none  of  the- 
peashells  stick  to  the  bottom. 

Pass  the  liquor  through  a  large-holed  cullender,  and 
add  to  it  all  you  can  squeeze  out  of  the  peashells  with 
the  back  of  a  wooden  spoon.  Strain  it  again  through  a 
finer-holed  cullender,  and  it  is  ready  to  heighten  the 
flavour  of  Green  Pease  or  other  vegetable  soups,  or  oF 
ragoiits  and  dishes  ci  la  Jardiniirey  into  which  vegetables 
enter  largely. 


VEGETABLES.  551 

French  BeaM^  Kidney  Beans j  Haricots  VertSy  of  very 
many  varieties  and  qualities.  When  quite  young,  i.e. 
not  fidl  grown,  the  only  preparation  and  trimming  they 
reqnire  is  to  toe  and  heel  them,  by  taking  off  the  tip  and 
the  stalk  at  its  junction  with  the  pod.  If  older,  the 
string  which  runs  down  the  back  of  the  pod  must  be 
peeled  away,  and  the  pod  cut  once  across ;  if  still  older, 
larger,  and  broader,  they  may  also  be  either  slit  down 
the  middle,  or  cut  across  slantwise  into  several  pieces. 

On  the  Continent,  favourite  varieties  are  those  in 
which  the  strings  of  the  pod  and  its  inner  lining-skin  are 
either  absent,  or  reduced  to  almost  nothing,  so  that  no 
knife  is  needed  for  trimming  the  pods.  They  are  prepared 
by  simply  breaking  them  in  two  with  the  fingers ;  when 
the  thread,  if  any,  will  come  away  of  itself.  These 
varieties,  too,  are  perfectly  suitable  for  the  kitchen  at 
an  advanced  stage  of  maturity,  when  the  seeds  are  ap- 
proaching to  ripeness ;  they  are  consequently  mealy  and 
nntritiousy  while  the  pod  is  at  the  same  time  more  fully 
charged  with  sugar  and  mucilage. 

After  this  preparation,  throw  your  kidney  beans,  of 
whatever  age  or  kind,  into  cold  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  throw  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  soft  water,  with 
a  little  salt  in  it,  and  boil  them  galloping,  and  uncoveredy 
until  tender ;  which  can  only  be  known  by  trying  them 
from  time  to  time.  The  time  they  take  to  cook  is  so 
variable,  that  all  that  can  be  said  about  it  is,  that  for 
young  and  tender  kidney  beans  it  will  be  not  less  than 
twenty  minutes.  If  your  water  is  hard,  you  must  make 
it  soft  by  a  pinch  of  carbonate  of  soda :  that  is,  if  you 


552  YEGITABUES. 

are  particular  abont  the  ccXour  of  your  kidnej  beans ; 
bat  do  not  forget  that  too  mnch  of  the  alkali  gives  them 
an  unpleasant  ^rour,  which  strongly  reminds  one  of 
washing-day. 

When  cooked.  Kidney  Beans  may  be  served  plain, 
or  with  a  bit  of  batter  pat  to  them,  as  for  Pease,  English 
Fashion. 

HaruxnU  VertSy  French  Faahioriy  comprises  several 
different  ways  of  serving  them.  French  cooks  often 
plain-boil  their  Elidney  Beans,  and,  when  enoagh,  set 
ihem  aside  to  cool,  to  be  ready  for  dressing  afterwards. 
A  common  and  agreeable  mode  of  heating  them  up  is : 

Kidney  BeanSy  with  PcarsUy  asid  (OHed)  Butter^  C!hop 
young  and  tender  parsley-leaves  fine ;  put  them  into  a 
stew-pan  with  a  lamp  of  sweet,  fresh  butter ;  then  add 
your  cold,  ready-cooked  Kidney  Beans.  Keep  stirring 
while  the  butter  is  melting,  so  that  the  beans  may  be 
completely  oiled,  and  the  chopped  parsley  equally  dis- 
tributed amongst  them.  That  done,  cover  down  dose 
with  the  lid,  and  simmer  gendy  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
or  twenfy  minutes. 

Haricots  Verts  au  Gras — Kidney  Beans  toith  Meat 
Gravy.  Have  ready  cooked  Kidney  Beans,  as  before. 
Fry  with  butter,  in  a  stew-pan,  parsley  and  onions,  both 
chopped  fine ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  Then  put  in 
your  cold  kidney  beans  (which  should  have  been  well 
drained);  toss  them  for  eight  or  ten  minutes;  then 
moisten  with  good  stock  and  roast-meat  gravy ;  let  them 
stew  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Take  up  your  kidney 
beans  with  a  fish-slice;  pile  them  on  a  hot  dish.    Thicken 


VKGBTABLEB.  553 

the  gravy  in  your  stew-pan  with  two  or  three  egg-jolks, 
and  pour  it  over  them. 

Cold  Kidney  Beans  make  an  excellent  Scdad^  and  are 
very  oommonly  eaten  under  that  guise,  especially  the 
kinds  which  are  presentable  with  the  seeds  advanced  in 
ripeness.  All  that  is  required  is,  to  drain  them 
thoroughly  while  cooling,  and  then  to  dress  them  with 
oil  and  vinegar,  or  any  other  form  of  salad-mixtnre  that 
may  be  preferred.  Besides  this,  they  are  often  sprinkled 
with  fine-chopped  parsley,  or  seedling  onions,  or  chives, 
or  chervil,  or  tarragon-leaves — the  two  latter  in  quite 
small  quantity :  they  can  likewise  enter  into  the  com- 
position of  a  Mayonnaise,  or  any  other  fancy  salad.  In 
short,  French  cooks,  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest, 
never  waste  cold  kidney  beans :  they  would  prefer  to  eat 
them  themselves ;  which  is  a  great  deal  to  say  of  any 
kitchen  remnant. 

White  Haricots,  the  dried  seeds  of  certain  varieties  of 
kidney  bean.  The  skins  of  these  must  be  removed  before 
coohng;  which  is  ^effected^  either  by  steeping  them  in 
soft  water  overnight,  or,  more  effectually  and  readily, 
by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them,  and  letting  them 
stand  in  it  until  it  is  cold,  then  pouring  that  away,  and 
again  pouring  boiling  water  over  them,  and  leaving  them 
in  it  until  they  are  cool  enough  to  be  handled,  when  it 
will  be  found  that  their  coats  will  easily  come  away. 

Put  them  on  to  boil  in  as  much  cold  soft  water  as 
will  cover  them,  filling  up  with  hot  water  as  it  is 
absorbed  by  the  beans  and  escapes  by  evaporation. 
When   thoroughly  cooked,  there  should  be  no  more 


554  YEQETABLBS. 

liquid  left  than  is  just  suiBcient  to  moisten  them.  In 
this  state,  thej  are  set  aside  bj  French  Cooks,  readj 
for  dressing  in  varions  ways,  which  are  mostly  meager^ 
on  account  of  their  utility  on  abstinence-days.  White- 
Haricots  likewise  enter  largely  into  most  meager  soups. 

White  Haricots  a  la  Mattre  ^H6teL  When  your 
haricots  are  boiled  tender,  as  above,  drain  them,  and  put 
them  still  hot  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  lump  of  firesh  butter. 
While  it  is  melting,  sprinkle  over  them  chopped  parsley 
and  chives  (or  seedling  onions),  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
dash  of  vinegar.  Mix  well,  heat  up  thoroughly,  and 
serve.  Tou  may  substitute  lemon-juice  for  the  vinegar 
—or  suppress  them  both. 

This  light  and  nutritious  winter  vegetable  dish  ought 
to  appear  oftener  than  it  does  on  English  tables.  Not 
only  has  it  the  convenience  of  being  meager  in  itself,  but 
it  makes  an  excellent  accompaniment  to  any  kind  of 
meat  or  poultry. 

Wliite  Haricots^  in  Gravy,  Boil  your  haricots  aa 
above.  Make  a  roux  with  butter  and  flour ;  brown  in  it 
a  few  chopped  onions;  moisten  with  roast-meat  gravy 
and  a  little  good  stock;  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Add  your  haricots,  and  toss  them  well  in  it  for  eight  or 
ten  minutes.  If  they  are  to  support  a  joint  of  roast 
mutton,  enrich  them  with  a  spoonful  or  two  of  the  gravy. 

W/iite  Haricots  and  Cream,  Boil  two  or  three  white 
onions  till  you  can  mash  them  to  a  pur^e.  Put  them  into 
a  stew-pan  with  a  teacupftil  of  rich  cream,  a  lump  of 
butter  as  big  as  a  large  walnut,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  dust 
of  grated  nutmeg.     Then  throw  in  your  ready-cooked 


TE6ETABLE8.  555 

haricots.  Set  them  on  a  gentle  fire ;  keep  stirring  till 
all  is  thoronghlj  heated,  without  actually  hoiling.  When 
that  is  done,  they  are  ready  to  serve. 

This  dish  goes  well  with  boiled  fowl  or  turkey,  boiled 
breast  of  veal  and  oyster  sauce,  sweetbreads  served  white,, 
and  other  things  of  the  kind. 

Cold  Boiled  White  Haricots  are  very  generally  served 
as  a  Salad,  They  admit  considerable  variety  in  the 
yegetables  which  may  be  employed  to  accompany  them  ; 
chopped  parsley,  chervil,  chives,  or  seedling  onions; 
sliced  onions,  baked  beetroot,  cold  potatoes;  celery^ 
frizzled  and  cut  into  short  lengths ;  mustard-and-cress. 

Scarlet  Runners  will  hardly  be  eaten  by  those  who 
can  obtain  any  more  delicate  species  of  the  useftil  genua 
Phaseolus;  nevertheless,  they  are  highly  relished  by 
some,  whom  we  leave  to  their  own  ways,  provided  they 
let  us  have  ours.  Scarlet  Runners  are  prepared  and 
boiled  exactly  like  kidney  beans,  only  they  hardly  lend 
themselves  to  so  many  different  ways  of  dressing  after- 
wards. 

Broad  BeanSj  Windsor  BeanSj  Mazagan  BeanSj 
Dwarf  Fan  Beans^  Fhes  de  Maraisy  and  other  members 
of  the  same  group  of  leguminous  plants,  make  in  their 
season,  which  is  not  long,  a  pleasant  and  wholesome 
variety,  for  those  who  like  them — ^which  all  do  not 
Many,  however,  without  admitting  them  as  a  recognised 
item  on  their  bills  of  fare,  still  like  to  see  and  taste  them 
twice  or  thrice  during  the  course  of  the  summer. 

Beans  and  Baeon^  boiling  the  full-grown  beans  with 
the  pickled  pork,  is  a  dish  which  has  its  admirers^ 


556  VEGETABLES. 

although  it  is  coarse,  and  is  not  so  substantial  as  popular 
prejudice  holds  it  to  be.  Its  substantiabiliij  is  oftea 
made  out  bj  the  quantity  eaten,  and  bj  the  bread  and 
cheese  and  beer  employed  to  fill  every  remaining  crevice 
in  the  stomach.  It  belongs  to  the  category  of  rustic 
feasts, 

''Where  Corydon  and  Thynis  met, 
Are  at  their  8aT*r7  dinner  set 
Of  herbs,  and  other  oonntrj  messes. 
Which  the  neat-handed  Phyllis  dresses." 

The  only  direction  we  need  give  to  Phyllis  is,  not  to  put 
in  her  beans  until  the  bacon  has  begun  to  boil. 

Broad  Beans  are  best  taken  when  about  three-parts 
grown,  while  young  and  tender,  and  the  skins  can  still 
be  eaten.  Throw  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  tea- 
spooniul  of  salt  in  it.  When  done,  drain  them ;  pile 
them  in  a  hot  dish,  and  thrust  a  bit  of  butter  into  the 
heap,  exactly  as  for  Qreen  Pease,  English  Fashion. 

N.B.  French  cooks  boil  with  Broad  Beans,  sprigs  of 
sarriette,  or  Summer  Savory  (as  we  do  mint  with  Pease), 
and  a  great  improvement  it  is  (to  our  taste),  the  flavour 
of  Summer  Savory  being  more  delicate  and  less  over- 
powering than  that  of  mint.  It  is  an  annual  plant,  of 
the  easiest  culture ;  when  once  established  in  a  garden, 
it  will  sow  itself,  if  allowed,  like  mignonette. 

Broad  Beans  and  Cream  (Full-grown).  Boil  them 
in  salt-and-water,  with  sprigs  of  Summer  Savory. 
When  very  nearly  or  quite  done  enough,  drain  them, 
peel  off  their  skins  (which  French  Cooks  call  their  robe)y 
and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  lump  of  butter,  a  dust 


YBGlETABIiES.  557 

of  flour,  the  same  of  sngar,  and  a  little  parsley  and 
summer  savory  chopped  very  fine.  Give  them  a  few 
minnies  tossing  in  this ;  add  a  cnpftd  of  cream.  When 
all  is  well  heated,  take  up  your  beans,  pile  them  on  a  hot 
dish ;  thicken  the  cream  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  pour  it 
over  the  beans. 

Asparagusy  Boiled.  Procure  it  as  fresh-cut  as  possible. 
Scrape  off  the  outer  skin  from  the  white  end  of  each 
shoot;  cnt  them  into  nearly  equal  lengths;  tie  them 
with  string  into  small  bundles  of  five  or  six  shoots  each, 
and  throw  them  into  cold  water  till  cooking-time  comes. 

Then  throw  the  little  bundles  into  boiling  salt-and- 
water,  and  let  them  boil  galloping,  without  the  lid,  till 
tender,  which  will  take  from  tweniy  minutes  to  half  an 
hour. 

Lay  toasted  bread  at  the  bottom  of  your  vegetable- 
dish.  Take  out  your  litde  bundles  of  asparagus  with  a 
fork,  and  untie  them  over  this,  depositing  the  heads  of 
asparagus  on  the  toast,  all  lying  in  one  direction.  If  the 
water  which  drains  from  them  be  not  enough  to  soak 
the  toast  (in  this  case  called  the  ^^  sippet"),  pour  over 
them  a  spoonful  or  two  from  the  saucepan. 

You  may  either  pour  melted  butter  over  asparagus, 
or  serve  it  separately  in  a  butter-boat.  On  the  Conti- 
nent, oiled  butter  is  often  eaten  with  asparagus,  and  an 
excellent  sauce  for  that  vegetable  it  is. 

Asparoffusy  in  imitation  of  Green  Pease.  Take  the 
slim,  green,  run-up  shoots  of  young  asparagus-plants, 
which  are  not  old  enough  to  produce  ordinary  aspara* 
gus.      Scrape   off  any  tough  outside  skin  they  may 


^58  VSGETABLSS. 

Itaye^  and  cut  ihem  into  short  lengths  ahont  the  size  of 
marrowfat  pease.  Then  treat  them  exactlj  like  Green 
Pease,  French  Fashion.  . 

These  are  used  rather  to  go  with  meats  cooked  a  la 
Jardinih'€y  stewed  Pigeons,  and  other  things  of  llie 
kind,  before  real  green  pease  come  in,  than  to  be  served 
as  a  dish  by  themselves.  The  cook,  doubtless,  finds 
them  useful ;  but  the  gardener's  opinion  maj  be  taken 
whether  the  removal  of  these  shoots  do  not  injure  his 
young  asparagus-plants,  and  retard  their  production  of 
asparagus  really  worthy  of  the  name. 

Sorrel  is  a  curious  instance  of  the  high  estimation 
which  one  country  may  accord  to  things  that  are  utterly 
despised  and  neglected  in  another.  Sorrel  is  one  of  the 
Frenchman's  staves  of  life.  With  its  raw  leaves  he 
eats  his  afternoon  crust  of  bread.  With  it  he  makes  his 
meager-day  soup ;  on  it  he  deposits  his  feast-day  fid- 
candeau.  It  purifies  his  blood,  opens  his  appetite,  and 
regulates  his  digestive  apparatus.  So  necessary  is  sorrel 
to  his  cookery,  that  it  is  salted  and  boiled  down  for 
winter  use. 

The  dressing  of  sorrel  is  of  the  simplest.  In  springs 
when  tender,  it  is  merely  shorn  firom  the  crown  of  the 
plant,  washed,  roughly  drained,  put  into  a  stew-pan 
with  a  bit  of  butter  and  the  water  adhering  to  it,  and 
then  worked  over  the  fire  with  a  spoon  into  a  pur^  or 
mash.  In  summer,  if  the  midrib  of  the  leaf  is  tough, 
the  green  part  of  the  leaf  on  each  side  is  stripped  off, 
and  then  stewed  down  to  a  mash  as  before. 

Sorrel  so  treated  is  excellent  to  accompany  yeal 


VEGETABLES.  559 

cntlets,  fricandeans,  poached  eggs,  boiled  sausages,  and 
oliher  little  things  of  the  kind.  Many  cooks  also  dilate 
its  aciditj  hy  a  liberal  admixture  of  spinach,  orache, 
chervil,  and  especially  the  patience-dock,  whose  in- 
sipidity it  greatly  relieves.  A  little  sorrel  may  also 
be  advantageously  combined  with  chopped-up  cabbages 
or  turnip-tops,  to  be  served  with  pork-chops,  broiled 
iddneys,  sausages,  &c  Moreover,  a  Pur^  of  Sorrel 
may  be  enriched  with  egg-yolks,  flour,  cream,  and 
{for  non-abstinence  days)  meat-gravy  or  consomm& 
In  any  case,  wash  the  sorrel  well,  that  there  be  no 
grit  adhering  to  the  leaves. 

Spinach  requires  a  deal  of  dressing,  and  likewise  of 
^^  additionals. "  A  gentleman  who  was  fond  of  having  his 
vegetables  ffood^  managed  his  spinach  after  this  fashion  : 

Say  it  was  boiled  on  Monday,  and  sent  to  table, 
properly  seasoned,  as  the  cook  supposed:  it  went 
away  untouched.  The  next  day  it  was  warmed,  with 
an  additional  piece  of  butter,  and  again  not  eaten ; 
and  so  on  for  four  or  five  days,  each  time  absorbing 
more  butter;  until  at  last,  our  gourmand,  finding  it 
sufficiently  good,  made  an  end  of  it 

Spinach  may  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water.  The 
orthodox  way  is  to  put  it  on  the  fire  with  a  bit  of 
butter  and  only  the  water  adhering  to  the  leaves,  in 
a  dose-covered  stew-pan.  When  tender,  take  it  out, 
chop  it  fine,  and  return  to  the  stew-pan  to  be  treated 
with  pepper  or  nutmeg,  salt,  more  butter,  and  cream  or 
gravy.  Spread  it  on  your  dish,  smooth  the  surfiuse, 
and  garnish  with  fined  bits  of  bread. 


560  VA2ETABLES. 

Spinadi  TarL  To  make  a  Tarl.of  Spinnagej  we  hasb 
the  Spmnoffeyery  fine,  and  mix  it  afterwards  with  melted 
Butter,  Salt,  Sugar,  and  some  pounded  Almonds;  then 
we  put  the  whole  Mixture  in  Paste,  and  have  it  bak*d  ; 
being  bak'd,  we  send  it  to  Table  with  Sugar  over  it. — 
Dennis  de  Coetlogon, 

Several  pot-herbs  and  salad-plants  maj  be  treated 
like  spinach,  especiallj  with  the  help  of  a  dash  of  sorrel. 
We  might  call  them  spinach  of  endive,  of  chicoij-leaves, 
of  orache,  of  dandelion-leaves.  Endive  so  cooked  ap- 
proaches the  flavour  of  sea-kale.  Corn-salad  or  lamb* 
lettuce  makes  an  excellent  spinach ;  and  the  roughest 
gardener  can  have  it  in  abundance  in  earlj  spring,  when 
other  vegetables  are  scarce.  Indeed,  this  humble  little 
plant  runs  up  to  seed  so  soon  that  its  seasons  are  autumn, 
winter,  and  early  spring. 

Potatoes  J  Boiled.  Ought  potatoes  to  be  set  on  to  cook 
in  hot  water  or  in  cold?  Theoiy  answers  at  once,  ^^in 
hot."  Practice  observes  that  every  thing  must  depend 
upon  the  quality  of  the  potato.  Waxy  potatoes,  like 
some  of  the  small  Dutch  kinds,  may  be  thrown  into 
boiling  water.  But  if  very  mealy  potatoes  are  treated 
in  the  same  way,  their  ouisides  will  fall  to  pieces, 
and  be  dissolved  in  the  water,  while  their  insides  stiD 
are  hard.  Such  potatoes,  therefore,  must  be  set  on  in 
cold  water,  in  order  to  heat  gradually  and  equally 
through,  and  to  cause  their  whole  substance  to  be 
cooked  through  at  nearly  the  same  moment 

The  same  reasoning  applies  to  the  question  whether 
potatoes  should  be  cooked  wiih  their  jackets  or  without 


VEGETABLES.  561 

ihem.  Waxy  potatoes  may  be  cooked  peeled;  mealy 
potatoes  are  best  cooked  mipeeled,  to  have  their  skins 
removed  after  cooking,  and  drying  in  the  saucepan  with 
the  water  poured  away  from  them. 

Mashed  Potatoes  must  be  mealy,  well  cooked,  and 
yet  not  sloppy,  but  thoroughly  dry.  Heat  the  bowl 
before  you  put  them  in  (to*help  to  drive  off  moistore), 
and  mash  them  to  a  pulp  (or  rather  to  a  pasty  powder) 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  You  may  add  a  little  dust  of 
salt,  and  perhaps  pepper,  if  desired.  But  some  cooks 
mix  in  butter  and  milk  or  cream,  which  are  all  very  well 
if  you  want  a  purie  ofpoUUoesj  which  is  a  thing  by  itself, 
quite  different  from  genuine  mashed  potatoes.  The  former 
you  may  make  with  any  inferior  quality  of  potato ;  the 
latter,  in  its  perfection,  is  to  be  obtained  only  from  the 
most  floury,  and  is  one  of  the  nicest  ways  of  dressing 
that  vegetable. 

Mailed  Potatoes  may  be  served  simply  heaped  on 
the  dish; 

Or,  when  so  dished,  they  may  be  set  under  a 
salamander,  to  have  their  surface  browned,  which  will 
also  help  to  drive  off  superfluous  moisture ; 

Or,  they  may  be  put  into  a  pudding-basin  or  mould 
(buttered  inside),  and  set  into  the  oven  just  long  enough 
to  gild  the  surface  in  contact  with  the  mould.  They 
are  thus  not  only  heated  and  dried,  but  their  cooking  is 
thoroughly  consummated. 

Sautid  (commonly  called)  Fried  Potatoes.  One  of 
the  nicest  things  in  the  world  when  well  done,  and  one 
of  the  nastiest,  ill-done. 

00 


562  YEGETABLES. 

Wash  the  potatoes  before  jon  peel  them ;  wipe  tbem 
dry,  and  then  peel  them.  Wipe  them  again  after  peel- 
ing.  Small  potatoes  (less  than  a  walnut)  may  be  sauted 
whole;  larger  ones  must  be  divided  or  sliced.  After 
division  or  slicing,  dry  them  well  between  the  folds  of  a 
napkin. 

Tou  may  sant6  potatoes  in  either  pork-lard,  butter,, 
or  oil ;  but  whichever  you  use,  you  must  have  enough 
of  it.  You  may  saut£  potatoes  in  quite  a  small  pipkin,, 
provided  it  be  deep  enough. 

When  your  fat  is  hot,  put  your  potatoes  into  it  (not 
too  many  at  once),  and  keep  stirring  them  about  until 
they  are  evenly  coloured  all  over  of  a  clear,  light  brown, 
and  mealy  and  soft  insida  Properly  done,  they  are  diy, 
not  greasy,  and  may  be  eaten  like  a  biscuit  without  soil- 
ing the  fingers.  The  operation  is  one  which  ought  to  be 
seen  done,  and  is  well  worth  taking  a  lesson  in. 

The  TomatOj  although  a  firuit,  ftdfils  the  office  of 
a  vegetable.  It  is  not  common  enough  in  England 
to  be  used  on  a  large  scale  for  soups  or  sauces,  but 
makes  a  handsome  side-dish  to  accompany  various^ 
meats,  by  being  boiled  whole,  for  about  five  minutes^ 
in  any  good  stock  or  gravy,  and  served  in  it  without 
losing  its  original  form. 

Mushrooms  are  principally  consumed  as  buttons  in 
pickles,  sauces,  stews,  and  ragoiits.  Large  open  brown 
ones  are  excellent  Stewed.  See  that  they  are  fi*ee  fix>ni 
maggots,  which  are  apt  to  infest  them  in  sultry  weather; 
peel  off  the  upper  skin ;  shorten  the  stalks,  and  put  the- 
mushrooms  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a  little  good  stock,  a 


yegetabi.es.  563 

piece  of  bniter,  pepper,  and  Bali  A  few  minateB  over 
a  brisk  fire  will  cook  them. 

Large  Muahroams  may  also  be  broiled.  Peel  off  the 
npper  skin,  and  laj  them,  with  the  gills  upwards,  on  the 
gridiron.  Sprinkle  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  drop 
little  bits  of  batter  over  them  h^e  and  there. 

When  there  is  no  conyenitooe  for  broiling,  they  maj 
be  cooked  in  the  same  waj  on  a  dish  in  the  oven. 


564  SALADS. 


xvn. 

SALADS. 

. 

Farmer.  Yon  are  willing  to  make  yourself  useful,  are 
you  ?  But  why  did  you  run  away  from  your  last  place  ? 
Candidate  Ploughboy.  They  giv'  me  sich  a  lot  o* 
salad  all  the  summer,  that  I  was  a-feared  they'd  make 
me  eat  hay  in  the  winter. 

^^  Salad  cools  without  weakening,  and  comforts  with- 
out irritating ;  I  even  hold  that  it  helps  people  to  grow 
young  again." — Brillat  Savarin. 

The  above  contradictory  sentiments  fidrly  represent 
the  different  estimation  in  which  salad  is  held  on  the 
opposite  sides  of  the  English  ChanneL  The  quantity  of 
salad  eaten  in  England  amounts  only  to  a  fractional  part 
of  the  mass  which  is  consumed  in  France.  For,  there^ 
it  is  grown  not  merely  as  the  rich  man's  luxuiy,  but  as 
the  sustenance  of  the  labourer. 

What  is  Salad  ?  Some  reader  may  answer,  '^  Un- 
cooked lettuce  shred  into  a  bowl ;"  which  is  as  if  he 
were  to  define  "  a  Tart"  to  be  "  Raspberries  and  Cur- 
rants baked  under  a  crust"  It  is  the  minor,  but  not  the 
major,  of  the  question ;  the  individual  does  not  comprise 
the  class.  After  reflection,  we  cannot  limit  the  term 
^^  Salad"  more  closely  than  as  ^^  A  preparation  of  food  to 


SALADS.  565 

be  eaten  cold^  one  or  more  of  whose  ingredients  have 
been  obtained  from  the  vegetable  kingdom."  For  we 
find,  amongst  others,  a  Salad  of  Potatoes,  a  Salad  of 
Eels,  a  Salad  of  Partridges,  a  Salad  of  Chicken,  and  a 
Salad  of  Oranges ;  the  latter  dressed  in  the  same  way  as 
a  Salad  of  Uncooked  Pears,  onlj  substituting  rum  for 
brandj  in  the  seasoning. 

In  the  matter  of  Salads  we  have  greatlj  degenerated. 
Evelyn's  Aeetaria^  or  Discourse  of  SalUtSj  proves  (even 
although  pickles  are  included  in  the  term*)  that  a  more 
varied  and  artistical  sallet  could  be  served  two  hundred 
years  back,  than  now ;  and  that  our  only  mode  of  ad- 
vancement in  this  line  is  to  revive  old  fashions.  Where 
is  our  list  of  ^^  sallet-plants,  reduced  to  a  competent 
number,  not  exceeding  thirty-jiveV^  We  may  be  in- 
clined to  refiise  the  sow-thistle,  so  ^^exceedingly  wel- 
come to  the  late  Morocco  ambassador ;"  but  such  a  titling 
as  a  good  salad  is  now  never  dished  in  England,  if  there 
be  truth  in  the  Italian  proverb : 

"  L'  insalata  non  h  buon,  ne  bella, 
Oye  non  d  Is  pimpinella" — 

^^  The  salad  is  neither  good  nor  pretty  which  does  not 
contain  pimpemeL"  This  pimpinella  is  the  common 
bumet;  "but,"  says  Evelyn,  "a  fresh  sprig  in  wine 
recommends  it  to  us  as  its  most  genuine  element" — 
which  may  well  account  for  its  being  "  of  so  cheering 

*  **  Melon,  The  abortiTe  and  aftor-fmit  of  melons,  being  pickled 
as  encumber,  make  an  excellent  sallet— Potato.  The  small  green  fruit 
(when  about  the  sixe  of  the  wild  cherry),  being  pickled,  is  an  agreeable 
saUet" 


566  SALADSL 

and  exhilarating  a  quality."  ^^  Sampler/'  too^  is  cmeDy 
neglected  both  bs  a  pickle  and  a  salad-plant.  In  short, 
one  of  the  great  difficulties  of  modem  times  is,  What  is 
t^  mode  of  dressing  «aS^?  Family  quarrels  have  arisen 
on  the  subject;  and  the  salad«bowl  may  yet  lead  to  di« 
Yorces  h  mensdy  especially  as  we  have  now  no  supreme 
professor  powerful  enough  to  command  by  his  dictum  the 
acquiescence  of  the  gastronomic  world. 

Some  of  our  readers  may  be  old  enough,  like  our* 
selves,  to  remember  hearing  their  parents  or  grand- 
parents mention  the  Frenchman  who  used  to  dress  salads 
in  London,  for  the  modest  fee  of  a  guinea  per  salad. 
The  iact  is  perfectly  historical,  and  he  was  led  to  take  up 
that  profession  thus : 

He  was  a  Limousin  gentleman,  who  had  escaped  to 
England  during  the  horrors  of  the  first  French  Bevolu- 
tion.  His  name  was  D'Aubignac  or  D'AIbignac  Al- 
though his  finances  were  very  restricted  and  his  pittance 
small,  he  nevertheless  happened  to  be  dining  one  day  in 
one  of  the  best  London  taverns :  for  he  was  a  believer  in 
the  system  that  you  can  dine  well  off  one  single  dish, 
provided  that  dish  be  excellent  of  its  kind. 

While  he  was  finishing  a  slice  of  juicy  roast  beef, 
five  or  six  young  dandies  of  aristocratic  birth  were 
feasting  at  a  neighbouring  table.  One  of  them  rose, 
stepped  up  to  him,  and  said  politely,  ^^  Monsieur  French- 
man, it  is  reported  that  your  nation  excels  in  the  art  of 
dressing  salad.  Would  you  have  the  goodness  to  oblige 
us  by  dressing  one  for  us  ?" 

After  some  hesitation,  D'Albignac  consented.     He 


SALADS.  567 

^sailed  for  what  he  judged  necessary  to  execute  the  master* 
piece  that  was  expected  of  him,  set  to  work  with  a  will, 
and  had  the  good  luck  to  succeed. 

While  measuring  out  his  doses,  he  frankly  replied  to 
the  questions  that  were  put  to  him  respecting  his  present 
position.  He  said  that  he  was  an  4migri^  and  avowed, 
not  without  a  blush,  that  he  received  assistance  from  the 
English  Government — a  circumstance  which  doubtless 
authorised  the  young  men  to  slip  a  five-pound  note  into 
his  hand,  and  which  he  accepted  after  making  a  dight 
resistance. 

He  had  given  them  his  address ;  and,  therefore,  a  few 
dajB  afterwards  he  was  not  greatly  surprised  at  receiving 
a  letter  begging  him,  in  the  most  gentlemanly  terms,  to 
come  and  dress  a  salad  at  one  of  the  best  houses  in 
Grosvenor  Square.  D'Albignac,  perceiving  at  once  the 
friture  advantages  that  might  ensue,  did  not  hesitate  an 
instant.  He  arrived  punotaally,  armed  with  a  stock  of 
such  ingredients  as  he  judged  likely  to  give  his  work  the 
highest  finish.  On  this  occasion,  he  had  the  time  to  re- 
flect and  arrange  the  composition  of  his  salad  beforehand. 
He  again  achieved  a  success,  and  received  a  gratification 
which  made  a  handsome  addition  to  his  scanty  income. 

The  young  gentlemen  for  whom  he  had  operated  in 
the  first  instance  had,  as  may  be  supposed,  vaunted  even 
to  exaggeration  the  merit  of  the  salad  which  he  had 
dressed  for  them.  The  second  party  made  even  more 
fuBS  about  the  matter;  so  that  D^Albignac's  reputation 
43pread  like  wild-fire.  He  was  qualified  as  ^^The 
Fashionable  Salad-Maker,"  and  all  the  exquisites  in  the 


568  SALADS. 

metropolis  were  pining  for  salad  of  ihe  Frencliman*8 
making.    ^^  I  am  dying  for  it/'  was  the  expression  of  the 

day-  4 

D'Albignac  acted  like  a  wise  man  in  not  allowing 

the  opportunity  to  slip.  He  soon  started  a  yehide  to 
transport  himself  more  rapidly  to  the  different  localities 
where  he  was  sent  for,  together  with  a  servant,  canying 
in  a  mahogany  chest  all  the  ingredients  with  which  be 
had  enriched  his  stock — ^snch  as  vinegars  of  various 
aromatic  flavours,  oils  with  or  without  the  taste  of  finit, 
soy,  caviare,  truffles,  anchovies,  ketchup,  savoury  jelly, 
and  even  hard-boiled  egg-yolks,  which  are  the  dis- 
tinctive character  of  a  Mayonnaise. 

At  a  later  period  he  got  similar  salad-chests  made, 
which  he  completely  fiimished  with  the  necessary  ma- 
terials, and  sold  by  hundreds.  Li  short,  by  pursuing  his 
novel  profession  with  prudence,  politeness,  and  punctu- 
ality, he  made  a  little  fortune  of  eighty  thousand  fi'ancs, 
or  upwards  of  three  thousand  pounds,  with  which  he 
returned  to  France  when  the  times  became  more  settled. 
He  made  no  attempt  to  shine  in  Paris  society,  but  pro- 
vided for  his  fiiture  maintenance.  He  invested  sixty 
thousand  francs  in  the  public  fimds,  which  were  then 
down  to  50 ;  and  with  the  remaining  twenty  thousand 
he  bought  a  little  property  in  the  Limousin,  where  he 
lived  to  a  good  old  age,  happy  and  contented,  because  he 
knew  how  to  limit  his  desires,  and  to  cut  his  garment 
according  to  his  doth. 

As  a  General  Rule  for  Salady  be  prodigal  of  oil, 
prudent  with  salt,  and  parsimonious  with  vinegar.     But 


BAUIDB.  569 

every  salad-maker  will  not  admit  all  those  ingredients, 
few  as  thej  are.     Take,  for  instance, 

JEast^Anglian  Salady  a  preparation  well  deserving  an 
impartial  trial.  Shred  cos  lettuce  (cabbage-lettuce  is  not 
crisp  enough)  tolerably  fine  into  a  bowl.  Just  moisten 
it  with  a  very  little  vinegar — enough  to  let  you  know 
that  vinegar  is  there — sprinkle  it  with  sugar  (not  too 
much)  and  serve  immediately. 

Many  a  literary  genius  has  amused  himself  with 
salad-making.  Amongst  others,  we  give,  as  probably 
new  to  many  of  our  readers, 

Alexander  Dumas^s  Winter  Salad.  I  nearly  fill — 
the  great  romancer  tells  us — my  salad-bowl  with  rounds 
of  beetroot,  slices  of  celeiy,  rampion-roots,  with  their 
plume  of  blanched  leaves,  and  boiled  potatoes. 

At  the  outset,  I  clap  a  dish  on  the  salad-bowl,  turn 
the  latter  topsy-turvy,  placing  the  full  dish  beside  me, 
and  the  empiy  bowl  before  me. 

I  then  put  into  the  salad-bowl  a  hard  yolk  of  egg  for 
every  two  persons — six  yolks  for  a  dozen  guests.  I 
crush  them  in  oil  till  they  form  a  paste.  To  this  paste  I 
add  chervil,  crushed  tunny  (which  may  be  bought  pre- 
served in  bottles),  pounded  anchovies,  some  of  Maille's 
mustard,  a  large  spoonful  of  soy,  gherkins  cut  in  slices, 
and  the  whites  of  the  hard  eggs  chopped  in  pieces. 
Finally,  I  moisten  the  whole  with  the  very  best  vinegar 
I  can  procure.  Then,  and  then  only,  I  restore  the  salad 
to  the  bowl,  causing  it  to  be  weU  stirred  by  my  domestio 
[the  bumptious  bone  in  the  great  man's  arm  prevented 
his  stirring  it  himself]  ;  and,  on  the  stirred-up  salad, 


^70  SALADS. 

I  let  fall  £rom  on  Iiigh  a  pinch  of  paprica— -that  is 
to  say,  of  powdered  Hungarian  capsicum.  In  default 
of  which,  I  employ  cayenne,  but  in  an  infinitely  smallGr 
proportion. 

The  effects  of  the  mixture  remain  to  be  told.  From 
1814  to  '16,  says  the  professor  of  salad  in  the  Bue  de  la 
Ohauss^-d'Antin,  every  Wednesday  I  gave  suppers,  at 
which  I  assembled  a  dozen  artists  and  men  of  letters, 
Hiere  were  painters,  singers,  and  acters  amongst  them 
— all  capital  appreciators  of  savoury  messes  and  diffi- 
•culties  vanquished.  Eh  bien  !  those  who  were  detained 
•on  the  stage,  or  were  prevented  fi*om  coming  by  any 
impediment  whatsoever,  sent  their  servant  with  a  plate 
for  their  share  of  salad,  which  was  protected,  when  it 
rained,  by  a  huge  umbrella.  Bonconi,  for  one,  never 
failed  te  apply,  in  whatever  part  of  the  world  he  might 
happen  te  be. 

Sidney  SmitVs  Winter  Salad. 

Two  large  potatoes,  passed  through  kitchen  sierei 
Unwonted  softness  to  the  salad  give. 
Of  mordant  mustard  add  a  single  spoon- 
Distrust  the  condiment  which  bites  so  soon ; 
But  deem  it  not^  thou  man  of  herbs,  a  £B,ult 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt 
Three  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucca  crown. 
And  once  with  vinegar,  procured  from  town. 
True  flavour  needs  it,  and  jour  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 
Let  onion  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl. 
And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole : 
And  lastly,  on  the  flavoured  compound  toss 
A  magic  teaspoon  of  anchovy  sauce. 
Then,  though  green  turtle  fail,  though  yenison's  tongh. 
And  ham  and  turkey  are  not  boiled  enough, 
Serenely  full,  the  Epicure  may  say : 
Fate  cannot  harm  me — ^I  have  dined  to-day  I 


SALADS.  571 

JEndwej  in  SalacL  There  are  two  verj  distinct  kinds 
of  endive:  the  curled,-  the  chicor4e  frisde  of  French 
gardeners ;  and  the  broad-leaved,  or  ecarole.  The  former 
is  the  more  ornamental  in  the  bowl,  the  latter  the  more 
satisfactoij  on  the  plate.  Both,  however,  are  excellent, 
provided  thej  have  been  property  and  completely 
blanched.  Both,  also,  are  late  summer,  autumnal,  and 
winter  salads,  and  may  be  kept  far  into  the  season,  if 

^  »  »,  V,  dJ  odlT  »  d»d  ^  ,U^  i^ 

cannot  penetrate,  and  deposited  there  with  balls  of  earth 
to  their  roots,  care  being  taken  previously  to  remove  not 
only  decaying  leaves  and  vegetables,  but  htaiU  and  slugs. 
When  your  endive,  whether  plain  or  curly,  is  nicely 
picked,  washed,  and  fireed  from  every  drop  of  adhering 
water,  by  swinging  it  in  a  salad-basket  or  a  coarse,  dry 
napkin,  then — and  not  till  then — ^put  it  into  your  salad- 
bowL  Over  it  pour  one  or  two  table-spoonfuls  of  salad- 
oil,  or  more,  according  to  your  quantity  of  endive.  Then 
continue  stirring  and  mixing  incessantly,  until  the  oil 
has  come  in  contact  with  every  part  of  every  piece 
of  leaf.  Have  ready  a  little  finely  chopped  tarragon 
leaf,  or  chervil,  or  both ;  fine-minced  chives  is  a  proper 
addition,  when  the  taste  of  onion  is  not  objected  to. 
Bust  these  over  your  salad  so  that  they  shall  adhere  to 
the  oiled  leaves,  which  will  then  have  the  appearance  of 
being  speckled  with  them.  Mix  thoroughly  again^  in 
order  that  those  ingredients  may  be  equally  distributed. 
Then  put  into  your  salad-spoon,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
half  as  much  pepper,  a  mustard-spoonful  of  made 
mustard,  not  more  than  a  dessert-spoonfiil  of  vinegar  if 


572  SALADS. 

strong,  just  a  little  more  if  weak.  Mix  these  together  in 
the  spoon ;  let  them  &I1  drop  bj  drop  on  the  salad,  and 
stir  all  together  well  again  nntil  the  seasoning  has  per- 
vaded the  whole  contents  of  the  bowL 

Blanched  Chicory  Scdad,  This  and  the  following 
excellent  salads,  though  largely  nsed  on  the  Continent, 
are  rarelj  to  be  bought  in  English  markets  out  of 
London.  But  as  their  growth  and  blanching  are  so 
easj  and  simple  that  any  body  with  a  little  bit  of  ground 
may  cultivate  them,  we  abridge  Mr.  Cuthill's  directions, 
from  Delamer's  Kitchen  Grarden : 

^^  When  the  plants  have  done  growing,  some  time  in 
November,  the  crop  of  chicory-roots  is  dug  up  and 
stored.  In  cutting  off  the  leaves,  you  must  not  injure 
the  centre ;  for  out  of  the  centre  comes  all  the  salad.  In 
1836,  I  had  a  quantity  of  mould  put  into  a  cellar,  and 
planted  a  bed  of  chicory-roots  as  soon  as  they  were  taken 
up  from  where  they  had  grown  during  the  sunmier.  I 
planted  three  hundred  roots  in  the  bed,  keeping  them 
four  inches  apart,  with  light  and  air  entirely  excluded. 
They  soon  began  to  grow,  producing  long,  fine,  cream* 
coloured  leaves ;  and  when  about  six  inches  long,  I  sent 
them  in  as  salad,  cutting  off  the  leaves  carefully ;  for  if 
you  cut  into  the  quick,  it  would  stop  a  second,  third^ 
and  fourth  crop  of  leaves  which  a  root  produces,  until  its 
cells  are  as  empty  as  a  honey-comb  or  until  entirely 
exhausted.  From  the  number  of  plants  in  the  cellar,  I 
could  have  supplied  ten  such  families  as  that  I  lived 
with ;  but  it  was  not  until  the  severe  winter  of  1838  that 
I  sufficiently  appreciated  the  use  of  chicory  as  salad» 


SALADS.  573 

The  firost  and  snow  were  severe :  all  endive,  lettaoe,  and 
celery  was  gone  rotten.  Our  salads  were  the  best  in 
London.  Everj  one  that  dined  inquired  what  it  was, 
and  eveiy  one  ordered  it  to  be  grown  afterwards. 

"When  I  came  here  (to  Camberwell),  I  grew  the 
roots  with  the  view  of  introducing  chicory  salad  into 
Covent-Gkrden  Market.  I  had  it  planted  into  a  pit  where 
there  was  a  flue,  and  covered  the  glass  with  mats  to 
exclude  the  light  I  had  also  five  or  six  roots  put  into  a 
large-sized  pot,  and  turned  the  next  smaller-sized  pot 
reversed  over  the  heads,  stopping  the  hole  in  the 
bottom  of  the  top  pot,  to  exclude  air.  This  last 
is  a  very  easy  method,  and  it  answers  well  for  a 
small  family,  just  putting  in  a  few  pots  in  heat  any 
where.'*  But  when  he  had  grown  it,  he  had  a  diffiouliy 
in  getting  rid  of  it.  No  one  had  ever  seen  it — ^no  one 
had  ever  heard  of  it — and  no  one  would  buy  it.  "  But 
I  am  in  hopes,"  Mr.  Cuthill  philosophically  continues, 
"  even  now  to  see  it  largely  brought  into  public  markets. 
It  sometimes  takes  many  years'  hard  fighting  to  persuade 
people  to  their  own  benefit" 

The  growing  of  chicory  salad  at  home,  in  pots, 
would  be  made  still  easier  by  buying  ^  instead  of  growing 
one's  self,  the  chicory-roots  to  be  so  planted ;  in  that  case, 
the  salad-grower  does  not  want  a  garden  at  all,  but  only 
a  dark,  warm  cellar  or  outhouse  to  set  the  pots  in. 

Chicory,  without  being  "  the  finest  of  all  salads,  the 
finest  of  all  tonic  bitters,"  as  Mr.  Cuthill  holds,  is, 
nevertheless,  very  pleasant  and  wholesome,  and  par- 
ticularly welcome  in  the  dead  time  of  winter*     Its 


574  SALADS. 

inviting  appearance  is  also  mnch  in  its  &yonr.  It 
is  dressed  exactly  as  endive  salad,  except  that  tarragon- 
leaves  (unless  forced)  will  be  hard  to  procure;  bat 
there  will  be  little  diflScoliy  about  chervil  and  chives 
(or  the  green  of  onions)  at  any  season;  and  a  litde^ 
water-cress,  or  garden-cress  and  mustard,  can  h& 
chopped  fine  and  used  to  sprinkle  it  with. 

Bcarbe  de  Capueiny  or  CapudMs  Beof'dj  is'  a  delicate 
salad,  which  is  consumed  in  large  quantities  in  Paris^ 
during  winter  and  early  spring.     It  is  the  same  thing 
as  the  foregoing  chicory ;  only  the  object  of  the  French 
gardeners  is  to  get  the  roots  as  small,  instead  of,  like 
Mr.  Cuthill,   as  fine,  as  possible.     For  this  purpose^ 
chicory-seed  is  sown  late  in  spring,  broadcast,  and  rery 
thick,  on  poor,  meager  soil.      The  result  is,  that  the 
chicory  is  starved,  and  a  quantity  of  long,  straight^ 
slender  roots  are  produced.    At  the  commencement  of 
winter,  these  roots  are  taken  up  and  tied  in  bundles  (of 
about  the  size  you  can  grasp  with  both  your  hands), 
after  all  their  leaves  are  removed,  care  being  taken  not 
to  injure  the  central  bud.    This  task  is  a  work  of 
patience.  The  bundles  of  chicory-roots  are  then  removed 
to  a  perfectiy  dark  cellar,  where  a  bed  of  garden-mould 
has  been  prepared.    The  bundles  are  roughly  and  dosely 
planted  in  the  bed;  the  roots  soon  begin  to  vegetate, 
and  send  forth  long,  narrow,  yellowish-white  leaves, 
which  constitute  the  salad.     The  bunches  are  simply 
taken  up  and  brought  to  market,  roots  and  all,  just  aft 
they  are ;  and  the  sample  so  offered  really  has  a  slight 
resemblance  to  the  hoaiy  beard  of  some  venerable  monk. 


SALADS.  575* 

This  and  chioorj  are  admirably  adapted  for  fhrnishing 
salads  on  shipboard,  when  a  vessel  is  far  awaj  from  land. 
Boots  planted  inside  barrels  half-filled  with  mould,  as^ 
thick  as  they  will  pack,  would  afford  a  welcome  supply ». 
The  barrel-head  would  help  to  blanch  it ;  and  on  board 
ocean-steamers  there  would  be  little  difficully  in  forcing^ 
a  succession  of  salads  at  pleasure. — Dehmer. 

Capuchin's  Beard  is  a  wholesome  salad,  although^ 
there  is  a  slight  bitterness  in  its  flavour,  which  to  many 
people  is  far  from  disagreeable ;  of  course,  like  all  other 
imoooked  vegetables,  its  digestion  is  aided  by  complete 
mastication.  The  dressing  is  the  same  as  for  Endive 
and  Chicory. 

Dcmdelion  Salad.  Li  the  north  of  France,  this  plant 
is  gathered  in  spring,  just  as  it  grows  in  the  fields  and 
pastures.  If  its  shoots  happen  to  be  partially  blanched 
by  the  earth  of  a  molehill,  all  the  better.  Its  consump- 
tion by  the  French  population  is  very  considerable. 
Even  in  Paris,  wild  dandelion  is  largely  sold  for  salads. 
In  this  state,  however,  it  is  both  too  tough  and  too  bitter 
for  British  palates ;  respecting  its  wholesomeness  for  those 
who  can  eat  and  digest  it,  there  can  be  little  doubt. 

Both  the  toughness  and  the  bitterness  of  Dandelion 
salad  may  be  got  rid  of  by  blanching  it  thus : 

Late  in  autumn,  or  at  the  beginning  of  winter,  collect 
a  quantity  of  dandelion  plants.  Pick  off  all  the  leaves, 
leaving  the  crowns  of  the  plants  and  the  roots  uninjured,, 
although  the  latter  may  be  shortened  if  inconvenientiy 
long  or  forked.  Plant  them  as  thick  as  they  will  stow 
in  flower-potS;  in  any  common  garden-mould,  with  their 


576  BALADS. 

crowns  on  a  level  with  the  edge  of  the  poL  Give  one 
good  watering,  to  settle  the  earth  about  the  roots.  When 
thej  have  drained,  set  them  away  in  any  convenient 
comer  of  a  dark^  warm  cellar.  Complete  darkness  is 
indispensable  to  success.  After  a  certain  lapse  of  time, 
depending  on  the  temperature,  you  will  find  that  the 
dandelions  have  sent  up  shoots  of  ivoiy  whiteness.  They 
are  fit  to  cut  when  about  three,  or  not  more  than  fi>nr, 
inches  long,  and  make  an  agreeable  salad,  fresh  and  crisp, 
delicate  in  substance,  with  a  delicious  nutty  flavour.  No 
one,  who  was  not  aware,  would  ever  guess  the  despised 
weed  which  furnished  them.  Dandelion  salad,  more  or 
less  completely  blanched  (mostly  by  means  of  earth  and 
sand)  is  also  sold  in  French  markets,  but  of  course  much 
dearer  than  in  the  natural  state.  The  second  cutting 
afibrded  by  the  plants  is  only  trifling  in  quantity. 
Persons  willing  to  give  it  a  trial,  might  readily  import 
it  in  spring  (as  Queen  Elizabeth  obtained  her  salads 
fix)m  Flanders),  were  it  not  so  easily  grown  at  home. 

Dress  in  the  same  way  as  Capuchin's  Beard,  or 
simply  with  oil  and  vinegar. 

This,  and  one  or  two  oilier  salad-plants,  says  Dela- 
mer,  are  worth  mentioning,  if  only  for  the  purpose  of 
reminding  the  reader  of  the  resources  open  to  soldiers 
and  sailors  when  marching  across  country,  encamped, 
out  at  sea,  or  landed  on  a  wild  coast  Many  plants,  that 
would  be  scorned  by  the  gentlemen  of  England  who  sit 
at  home  at  ease,  would  be  thankfiilly  received,  both  as 
pleasant  and  healthful,  by  the  working  members  of  our 
army  and  navy. 


SALADS.  577 

The  Doctor^ s  Salad^  for  Gkla  Days.  Boil  three  eggs 
very  hard,  i.  e.  let  them  hoU  galloping  not  less  than  a 
quarter  of  an  honr.  When  quite  cold  (which  may  be 
hastened  by  throwing  them  into  water  &esh  from  the 
pmnp),  take  them  out  of  their  shells,  cut  them  in  halves 
lengthwise,  and  remove  the  yolks.  Save  the  whites; 
chop  the  yolks  as  fine  as  you  can,  put  them  into  a  small 
basin,  pour  over  them  a  table-spoonful  of  salad-oil,  and 
crush  all  together  as  smooth  as  possible  with  the  back  of 
a  silver  spoon.  When  well  incorporated,  add  gradually, 
stirring  all  the  while  vsith  aforh^  two  more  table-spoon- 
fuls of  oil. 

Put  a  good  mustard-spoonful  of  made  mustard  into 
a  table-spoon ;  fill  up  with  vinegar,  and  mix  with  your 
fork.  Then  gradually  work  the  mustard  and  vinegar, 
with  your  fork,  into  the  oil  and  egg-yolk.  Put  no 
pepper  and  no  salt.  When  smooth  and  creamy,  and  free 
from  knots,  this  makes  Sahd  Mixture^  A.        % 

Take  the  yellow  hearts  only  of  fine  cabbage-lettuces ; 
pick  them  to  pieces  leaf  by  leaf;  wash  and  drain  them 
thoroughly.  When  perfectly  firee  from  adhering  moisture, 
fill  your  salad-bowl  with  them  three-quarters  full ;  pour 
your  mixture  over  the  salad,  and  mingle  thoroughly. 
Surround  the  inside  of  the  bowl  with  a  row  or  garland 
of  brown,  orange,  and  yellow  nasturtium-flowers.  Cut 
the  hard  whites  of  egg  into  long,  narrow  strips,  and  with 
them  form  a  star  in  the  middle  of  the  salad.  At  the  end 
of  each  ray  of  the  star  drop  a  blue  borage-flower  (with- 
out the  calyx);  if  you  have  white  borage-flowers  also, 
place  them  alternately  blue  and  white.    Cover  the  dressed 

PP 


578  8AULD& 

salad  exposed  to  view  with  a  few  bits  or  leaves  of  fresh 
undressed,  and  serve  as  soon  as  the  operation  is  finished. 
Dressed  salad  should  never  have  to  wait  long;  the 
vmegar  in  the  dressing  causes  it  to  fade,  and  soon 
deprives  it  of  all  its  crispness. 

N.B.  The  flowers  are  intended  to  be  eaten. 

Salad  Mixture^  B.  For  those  who  are  prejudiced 
against  the  very  name  of  oU,  often  because  thej  never 
tasted  it ;  or,  possibly,  tasted  it  without  knowing  what 
it  was. 

Into  a  small  basin  put  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard  in 
flour,  a  salt-spoonfiil  of  salt,  and  half  that  quantity  of 
pepper ;  work  into  these  gradually  a  teacupful  of  the 
very  best  cream.  Then  stir  in,  according  to  its  strength, 
a  dessert-  or  a  table-spoonful  of  vinegar,  which  may  be 
tarragon  or  other  aromatised  vinegar.  Keep  the  mixture 
continually  stirred  until  you  pour  it  over  the  salad. 

Salad  Mixture  J  C,  for  the  same  class  of  eaters.  At 
the  bottom  of  a  basin  put  three  raw  egg-yolks,  mustard- 
flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  as  before,  and  a  bumping  table- 
spoon of  fresh,  rich  cream.  When  these  are  thoroughly 
incorporated,  with  a  fork  stir  in  the  juice  of  one  or  two 
lemons,  according  to  the  degree  of  acidify  liked.  Again 
stir,  imtQ  the  mixture  is  applied  to  the  salad. 

Salad  MLcturej  D.  What  you  buy  ready-made  at 
the  shops  in  bottles.  Mem.  When  taken,  to  be  well 
shaken.  After  a  bottle  is  once  opened,  its  contents 
should  be  consumed  with  no  long  delay. 

Dr.  Eitchener'a  Cooked  Salad.  Arnmgd  in  a  tasty 
way,  in  the  centre  of  a  deep  dish,  a  pile  of  cold  cauli- 


SALADS.  579 

flower,  delicate  cabbage  (with  the  water  well  squeezed 
ont),  asparagus-tops,  sea-kale,  green  pease,  kidney  beans, 
artichoke-bottoms,  or  whatever  vegetable  happens  to  be 
in  season.  A  variety  is  advantageous  rather  than  not. 
When  nicely  packed  together  in  a  heap,  pour  over  the 
whole  a  liberal  allowance  of  salad  mixture, — ^which  may 
he  made  with  aromatised  pickle  vinegar,  and  have  a 
table-spoonful  of  capers,  pickled  nasturtium-buds,  or 
^chopped  gherkins  thrown  into  it.  As  a  final  decoration, 
ahred  very  finely  over  ihe  snrfeoe  a  few  fresh  leaves  of 
either  cos  or  cabbage  lettuce,  so  as  just  to  conceal  what 
lies  beneath  them. 

This  makes  a  nice  dish  in  sultry  weather,^-oooling, 
yet  not  insipid,  and  light  of  digestion.  By  making  a 
foundation  for  the  cold-cooked  vegetables  with  joints  of 
cold  fowl  or  game,  cold  roast  veal,  or  other  meat,  you 
have  a  sort  of  Chartreuse  Salad^  which  is  substantial  as 
well  as  acetarious.  Crab  and  lobster,  or  cold  fish, — as 
^salmon,  turbot,  sole,  or  eels, — can  likewise  so  make  their 
%inexpected  entrance.  They  will  thus  nearly  approach 
a  Mayonnaise.  With  fish,  a  sprinkling  of  picked  shrimps, 
together  with  the  fresh-shred  lettuce-leaves,  makes  a 
pretty  addition  to  the  dish.  ' 

Seedling 'Lettuce  Salad,  A  favourite  Continental 
-spring  salad  consists  of  tiny  lettuce-plants,  called  Laitues 
h  CcupeTj  or  Lettuces  to  Cut,  which  are  sown  thickly  in 
frames,  like  mustard-and-cress,  on  hot-beds  or  under 
bell-glasses,  and,  when  they  have  made  three  or  four 
leaves,  are  cut  with  a  sharp  knife,  dividing  their  tap- 
root, j  ^st  below  the  sur&ce  of  the  ground.    These  should 


580  SALIBS. 

be  dressed  delicately,  wiili  a  snfficienoj  of  o3  or  cream, 
and  a  sparing  allowance  of  other  condiment.  They  go 
well  in  oompanj  with  other  small  salading, — ^as  mnstard- 
and-cress,  or  young  radish-plants  in  their  cotyledons  or 
seed-leaves.  Lettaces,  as  an  article  of  diet,  are  said  to 
have  a  slightly  anodyne  or  tranquillising  effect  on  the 
system, — ^which  is  another  recommendation  of  this  Seed* 
ling  Salad. 

Any  kind  of  lettace-aeed,  Delamer  informs  us,  will 
serve  for  growing  laiiues  cl  couper ;  but  green  kinds  are 
preferred  to  brown,  and  cabbage  to  cos.  The  Parisian 
gardeners  make  use  of  early  dwarf  kinds,  which  would 
scarcely  form  a  heart  if  suffered  to  stand.  They  (as  well 
as  every  other  salad-plant)  must  never  be  stinted  in  their 
supply  of  water,  if  they  are  to  retain  their  crispness. 
Salads  that  are  starved,  and  allowed  to  grow  slowly,  are 
sure  to  turn  out  tough  and  ill-flavoured.  Any  one  who 
has  room  enough  to  grow  mustard-and-cress,  or  even 
has  only  a  few  unused  mignonette-boxes,  may  indulge 
in  seedling  salad  from  time  to  time ;  while,  by  successive 
sowings,  and  the  employment  of  hot-beds,  laiiues  it  couper 
may  be  had  all  the  year  round. 

When  mustard-and-cress  are  intended  to  be  eaten 
together,  the  mustard,  which  germinates  the  more  quickly 
of  the  two,  should  be  sown  a  few  days  later. 

Com  Salady  Lamb  Lettucej  Mdchej  is  valuable  in 
consequence  of  its  earliness.  Sown  in  autumn,  it  affords 
supplies  throughout  the  winter  and  early  spring.  The 
leaves  are  firesh-Iooking  and  delicate,  even  when  taken 
from  beneath  the  snow.     Their  flavour  is  peculiar,  and 


SALADS.  581 

somewhat  physickj,  which  does  not  prevent  its  being 
liked  by  many.  "The  French,"  says  Evelyn,  "cafl 
them  salade  de  pritre  (priest's  salad),  from  their  being 
generally  eaten  in  Lent." 

Dress  Com  Salad  with  plenty  of  oil  and  aU  the  other 
nsnal  condiments.  It  may  also  have  a  sprinkling  of 
fine-chopped  onion  or  shallot,  and  fine-chopped  celery. 
The  admixture  with  it  of  aay  other  small  salading  is  a 
decided  improvement. 

Water-cf^esseSy  besides  serving  as  an  accompaniment 
and  a  garnish  to  many  meats,  are  also  employed  as  a 
genuine  salad,  with  which  it  is  not  usual  to  mis  any 
thing  else.     In  this  way,  they  are  excellent  during  the 
autumnal  months,  before  the  frosts  have  touched  them. 
Their  best  dressing  is  pleniy  of  oil,  enough  salt,  little 
vinegar,  and  no  mustard  or  pepper.     Water-cress  salad 
may   be    garnished   with   hard-boiled   eggs   cut    into 
quarters,  anchovy  fillets  in  oil  cut  into  strips,  picked 
shrimps  or  prawns,  capers,  or  gherkins  cut  into  slices. 
Aromatised  vinegars  scarcely  harmonise  with  the  natural 
pungency  of  the  plant.  Water-cresses  should  be  gathered, 
or  grown,  only  in  ruwmig  water ;  the  nearer  to  the  head 
of  a  spring,  the  better.     During  the  first  four  months  of 
the  year  they  require  particularly  careful  picking,  to 
remove  any  spawn  or  parasites  that  may  adhere  to  them. 
After  that  time,  they  run  up  to  seed,  and  are  out  of 
season  during  the  summer. 

Salrnagundi  Salad.     For  this,  use  a  large,  circular, 
shallow  dish. 

Boil  eggs  hard ;  chop  up  separately  the  yolks  and  the 


582  gALADS. 


into  a  ooane  powder.  Gfawte  a  quantity-  of  hung- 
beef;  cat  filleted  anchovies  or  Dutch  herring  into 
strips. 

In  the  middle  of  the  dish  make  a  compact  heap  of 
Cs^uchin's  Beard  or  other  white  salad,  or  of  perfedJ j 
blanched  lettace-hearts.  Sorromid  the  foot  of  this  heap 
with  a  circle  of  water-cress,  garden-cress,  or  other  dark 
or  brigfat-gi^en  salad.  Next  to  this  strew  a  circle  of 
powdered  egg-jolk,  then  of  the  whites,  then  of  the  beef 
Make  an  enter  circle  of  whatcTer  salad  yon  have  that 
is  fi-eshest  and  most  convenient ;  cnt  np  small  Decorate 
the  central  heap  with  the  strips  of  herring  or  anchovj, 
and  garnish  the  enter  rim  of  the  dish  with  a  few  patches 
of  pickled  red  cabbage  and  chopped  parslej  or  chives 
placed  altematelj  romid  its  circmnference.  Send  np« 
Mayonnaise  sauce  or  salad  mixture  in  a  separate  boat. 

This  medley  salad  (which  may  be  greatly  varied  a» 
season  and  circumstances  render  convenient)  looks  well 
upon  a  supper-table,  and  makes  a  nice  accompaniment 
for  cold  fowl,  game,  roast  meats,  pat£,  cheese,  &c.,  as- 
each  guest  can  help  himself  to  the  ingredients  that  best 
suit  his  taste. 

Lettuce  and  Cream  is  a  salad  which  must  be  eaten 
the  moment  it  is  dressed.  Season  the  lettuce  (the  coa 
varieties  are  the  best  for  this)  with  vinegar,  pepper,  salt^ 
and  pounded  sugar,  all  in  sparing  quantity.  Then  pour 
over  it  the  thickest  cream  you  can  get,  mix  well  in  the- 
bowl,  and  present  it  to  the  guests. 

Partridge  Salad.  Remove  fix>m  the  bones  any  meat, 
of  cold  roast  partridge  you  happen  to  have  left     Put 


SALADS.  583 

it  in  a  basin^  and  ponr  over  it  some  good  salad-oil, 
tarragon  vinegar,  a  ravigote  (p.  129),  popper  and 
salt.  When  it  has  steeped  in  this  a  little  while,  put  it  in 
the  middle  of  a  dish;  surround  it  with  hearts  of  lettuce 
cut  into  halves  or  quarters,  according  to  their  size; 
garnish  with  hard  eggs  cut  in  quarters,  small  pickled 
onions,  capers,  and  fillets  of  anchovy.  Then  pour  over 
the  whole  the  seasoning  remaining  in  the  basin. 

CImken  Salad.  Gut  up  the  remains  of  cold  chicken 
into  joints;  put  it  into  a  salad-bowl  with  lettuce  or 
broad-leaved  endive ;  pour  over  it  some  salad  mixture. 
Put  a  circle  of  water-cress  round  the  edge,  and  decorate 
the  middle  with  hard  eggs  sliced,  strips  of  anchovy, 
olives  with  the  kernels  removed,  sliced  gherkins,  and 
parsley,  with  tarragon  or  chervil  chopped  very  fine. 

Salade  cTEstrdesy  a  French  winter  salad,  named 
after  Gabrielle  d'Estrees,  who  is  supposed  to  have  been 
fond  of  celery  as  a  sweetener  of  the  breath. 

Have  some  cold  boiled  roots  of  Celeriac,  or  Turnip- 
rooted  Celery, — a  variety  which  is  of  even  easier  cultm*e 
than  ordinary  celery, — some  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and 
beet-root  which  has  passed  the  night  in  the  oven. 

In  the  middle  of  your  bowl  or  dish,  make  a  heap 
composed  of  broad-leaved  endive  and  blanched  celery- 
stalks  in  short  lengths  and  frizzed,  in  equal  quantities. 
Surround  this  heap  with  slices  of  the  cooked  celeriac, 
potatoes,  beet-root,  and  trufiSes,  lapping  over  each  other 
alternately,  and  stamped  or  cut  into  neat  and  pleasing 
shape.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  good  r^oulade  sauce 
or  other  highly  seasoned  mixture,  and  you  have  the 


584  SALADS. 

salad  wherewith  the  fair  Gkbrielle  was  wont  to  solace 
her  pensive  hours. 

Pear  Salcdy  uncooked,  for  Dessert  (French).  Peel 
pears  of  any  good  crisp-fleshed  yarietjr;  cut  them  in 
thin  slices,  and  remove  the  pips  and  cores.  Dust  ihem 
with  pounded  sugar,  and  moisten  them  with  brandy  or 
rum.  This  preparation  must  not  be  made  until  just 
before  it  is  wanted,  as  the  sliced  pears  would  turn  brown 
by  being  made  to  wait. 

Orange  Salad j  for  dessert  (Franco-Algerian).  Do 
not  peel  the  oranges,  but  treat  them  in  other  respects 
exactly  like  the  pears  in  the  above  receipt,  with  a  liberal 
aUowance  of  rum  or  brandy.  An  idea  prevails  amongst 
the  French  occupants  of  Algeria  that  oranges  are  un- 
wholesome there,  causing  fever  and  other  grave  ailments, 
unless  eaten  with  this  seasoning. 

Cowslips  and  Cream.  Half-fill  a  small  bowl  with  the 
petals  only  (removed  from  the  caljrx)  of  fresh-blown 
and  fresh-gathered  cowslips.  Cover  them  with  thick 
cream,  well  flavoured  with  sugar  and  orange-flower- 
water.  This  makes  a  delicious  accompaniment  to  eat 
with  a  crust  of  bread  or  common  cake. 


SWEETS  Am>  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES.  585 


xvm. 

SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES. 

Plum  Fudding,  Few  cooks  are  agreed  about  this  old 
English  dish,  each  one  considering  her  own  way  the  best* 
French  cooks  even  go  so  iar  as  to  insist  that  baking  is 
the  proper  way  of  cooking  it ;  while  others  introdace  all 
sorts  of  strange  ingredients,  not  hesitating  to  recommend 
carrots  as  one  of  them.  We  have  every  reason  to  be 
satisfied  with  the  following. 

Beat  up  four  eggs  well ;  add  to  them,  first,  half  a  pint 
of  new  milk  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt  Then  mix  in  half  a 
pound  of  beef-suet,  chopped  very  fine ;  a  pound  of  raisins, 
stoned  and  chopped ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants ;  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  brown  sugar ;  one  nutmeg  grated ; 
one  ounce  of  candied  peel,  cut  into  thin,  small  strips. 
Stir  all  well  together,  and  add  another  half-pint  of  new 
milk ;  then  beat  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  a  stiff  paste. 
Add  a  glass  of  brandy  and  a  glass  of  white  Vine.  Tie  it 
up  clos0,  and  boil  it,  if  in  a  mould  or  basin,  five  hours ; 
if  in  a  doth,  four :  but  the  pudding  is  better,  as  well  as 
more  shapely,  when  boiled-  in  a  shape  or  moidd. 

For  Simee^  make  some  good  melted  butter ;  put  in 
some  loaf-sugar,  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  a  glass  of 
brandy ;  make  it  boil  up ;  pour  half  of  it  over  the  pud- 
ding, and  serve  the  rest  in  a  hot  sauce-boat. 


586  SWBETS  AMD  THIBD'-GOUBSS  DIBHBS. 

This  pudding  may  be  made  with  the  grated  crumb  of 
hoDJBehold  bread,  as  well  as  with  flom*.  It  is  better  so,  if 
to  be  eaten  oold. 

Plum  puddings  may  be  made  a  fortnight  or  longer 
before  thej  are  wanted,  and  will  be  all  the  mellower  for 
the  keeping,  if  hung  up  in  a  dry  place,  where  they  will 
not  mould. 

Christmas  plum  pudding  is  often  served  with  a  sprig 
of  holly  stuck  in  the  middle ;  this  makes  a  pretty  garnish  ; 
but,  N.B.,  the  scarlet  berries  of  the  holly  zre  poisonous^ 
and  therefore,  in  spite  of  their  very  good  looks,  are  just 
as  well  excluded  from  table. 

Plum  Pudding  au  Vesuve^  Vesurnan  Plum  Puddingy 
is  sure  to  please  the  youngsters,  and  perhaps  the  oldsters. 
On  the  top  of  the  pudding  cut  out  a  hollow  nearly  as  big 
as  an  ordinary  wine-glass.  Warm,  in  a  small  saucepan, 
a  wine-glass  or  more  of  good  cognac.  Let  your  assist- 
ant carry  this,  while  you  carry  the  pudding,  to  the 
dining-room  door.  Arrived  there,  let  her  pour  the 
cognac  into  the  hollow,  set  light  to  with  a  strip  of 
paper  (not  a  lucifer  match),  open  the  door,  and  serve 
blazing. 

Carrot  Pudding j  A  (Alexis  Soyer),  confessedly  such, 
is  given,  to  save  our  plum  puddings  from  that  hiyniliat- 
ing  intrusion. 

Mix  in  a  bowl  half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of 
chopped  suet,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  grated  carrot, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  currants,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar, 
brown  or  sifted  white.     Place  these  in  a  mould  or  dish  ; 


SWZETS  AKD  THISD-COUBSE  DISHES.  587 

beait  np  two  whole  eggs  and  the  yolks  of  four  in  a  gill  of 
milk ;  grate  a  litde  nntmeg  in,  and  add  it  to  the  former. 
Bake  or  steam  forty-five  minutes. 

Carrot  Puddinffy  B  (French).  Boil  in  water,  with 
just  a  little  salt,  a  dozen  fine  carrots,  selected  as  the  red- 
dest to  be  had,  and  carefully  scraped.  When  cooked^ 
pour  away  the  water,  and  let  them  dry  in  the  boiler  by 
the  side  of  the  fire.  Then  take  out  and  reject  the  yellow 
hearts,  and  squeeze  the  red  outsides  through  a  cullender, 
making  them  into  a  coarse  purfe. 

Then  make  a  cream  or  custard,  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  fire,  with  two  dessert-spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  or  corn- 
flour, and  a  pint  of  milk.  When  this  is  smooth,  incorpo- 
rate it  with  the  carrot  pur^e,  adding  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
orange-fiower-water,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar.  Then  stir  in,  one  after  the  other,  four  whole  eggs ; 
and  then  six  yolks  of  eggs,  the  whites  of  which  you  will 
set  aside.  Stir  in  well  with  all  this  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  oiled  butter. 

Three-quarters  of  an  hour  before  you  want  to  serve 
your  pudding,  whip  the  six  whites  of  eggs  to  a  froth,  and 
mix  them  thoroughly  with  the  rest  Put  the  whole  into- 
a  stew-pan,  or  into  a  buttered  mould,  and  set  it  into  a 
steady  oven.  When  baked  enough,  turn  out  yoiur  pud- 
ding on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  immediately. 

Potato  Pudding,  Swe^j  A.  Boil  eight  or  ten  large^ 
mealy  potatoes;  when  well  drained  and  floury,  mash 
them. 

Stir  up  a  dozen  egg-yolks  with  a  teacupfiil  of  good 
cream,  and  add  them  to  your  mashed  potatoes.     Stir 


588  SWEETS  AND  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES. 

them  together  for  ten  mmates,  with  a  bit  of  yanilla  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pounded  lump*sugar. 

Melt  a  good  lump  of  butter  in  a  stew-pan ;  when  it 
is  quite  hot,  put  a  round  of  writing  paper  at  the  bottom 
of  your  stew-pan;  upon  it  put  your  mixed  ingredients. 
The  butter  will  rise  round  the  sides  of  the  stew-pan,  and 
prevent  the  pudding  from  sticking  to  them.  Put  the  lid 
of  the  stew-pan  on,  and  cover  it  with  burning  embers. 
Cook  the  pudding  in  this  way,  and  over  the  fire,  for  half 
an  hour.  Turn  it  out  topsy-turvy  on  the  dish,  and 
serve  with  thick,  well-sweetened  cream  poured  over  it. 

Potato  JPuddingj  B.  Boil  ten  or  twelve  fine,  mealy 
potatoes,  with  their  jackets  on.  When  done,  let  them 
drain  and  dry ;  peel  them,  and  pound  them  with  a  lump 
of  butter ;  dilute  this  paste  with  milk,  until  you  get  a 
sort  of  batter,  which  is  neither  too  thin  nor  too  thick. 
Add  a  little  brandy,  a  couple  of  table-spoonfuls  of  poimded 
sugar,  and  some  fine-chopped  lemon-peeL  Let  it  simmer 
for  a  while  over  the  fire,  and  then  leave  it  to  cooL  Then 
add  three  egg-yolks  beaten  up  with  milk ;  mix  all  well 
together,  and  then  stir  in  the  three  whites  of  egg  whipped 
to  a  firoth.  Butter  a  pudding-dish,  and  in  it  bake  your 
pudding  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Cliestnui  Pudding.  Boil  and  peel  half  a  hundred  fine 
chestnuts;  when  thoroughly  cooked,  pound  or  crush 
them  finely.  Add  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  pounded 
sugar,  the  minced  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  orange-flower-  or  rose-water,  a  coffee-cupful  of 
stale  bread-crumbs,  the  same  of  sugar  biscuit  in  crumbs, 
and  a  teacupfid  of  good  cream.     Stir  in  with  these  half 


SWEETS  AND  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES.  589 

a  dozen  eggs  well  beaten  np,  yolks  and  whites  together. 
Pat  the  whole  into  a  buttered  monld  (or  this  quantity 
may  be  divided  between  two),  and  bake  in  a  steady 
oven.  On  turning  the  pudding  out  of  the  mould,  dust 
it  with  sugar,  and  set  it  for  an  instant  under  a  glowing 
salamander. 

Almond  Blancmange,  Take  half  a  pound  of  sweet 
almonds,  and  ten  bitter  almonds ;  blanch  them,  and  pound 
them  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  milk.  Melt  a  pound  of 
sugar  in  four  tumblers  of  milk,  and  in  it  boil  the 
pounded  almonds,  flavouring  with  vanilla.  Strain  the 
whole  through  a  piece  of  coarse  muslin ;  and,  while  the 
ingredients  are  stiU  hot,  stir  into  them  half  an  oimce  of 
isinglass,  previously  dissolved  in  boiling  water  and  then 
strained.  Then  put  the  whole  into  a  mould,  which  must 
remain  twenty-four  hours  in  a  cold  cellar,  or  six  hours 
on  ice,  before  turning  the  blancmange  out  of  the  mould. 

Boiled  Rice  Cahe^  with'  White  Wine.  Binse  half  a 
pound  of  rice,  and  boil  it  gently  in  a  little  water.  Before 
the  rice  is  quite  soft,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  drain  the 
water  away  fix>m  it.  Then  add  half  a  pint  of  sherry  or 
Madeira,  half  a  pint  of  water,  six  ounces  of  pounded 
lump-sugar,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  its  rind  minced 
as  fine  as  possible.  Set  it  on  the  fire  again,  and  let  it 
simmer  imtil  the  rice  is  thoroughly  cooked. 

Butter  the  inside  of  a  mould,  and  rinse  it  sb'ghtly 
with  white  wine.  When  the  rice  has  cooled  so  as  to  be 
no  more  than  tepid,  pour  it  into  the  mould,  and  let  it 
stand  all  night  to  get  firm.  Do  not  turn  it  out  until  just 
before  it  is  wanted,  when  you  will  ornament  it  tastily 


590  SWESTS  AlO)  THIBD«*COUBSE  DISHES. 

with  variously  coloured  candied  fruits^ — sucli  as  angelica, 
citron,  and  orange-peel  cut  into  narrow  strips,  preserved 
<sherries  and  strawberries  whole,  crystallised  apricots,  &o. 

Apple  Pudding  (French).  Cut  apples,  peeled  and 
cored,  into  very  thin  slices ;  boil  them  for  half  an  hour ; 
adding  a  sufficient  and  appreciable  quantify  of  pounded 
lump-sugar,  well-washed  currants,  Malaga  raisins,  and 
white  wine. 

When  these  are  boiled  together  so  that  the  apple  will 
mash  into  a  marmalade,  smear  with  butter  the  bottom  of 
a  circular  dish  which  is  rather  deep,  and  will  stand  the 
&:e.  Break  up  into  crumbs  a  good  quantity  of  sugar 
biscuits ;  strew  a  layer  of  these  Crumbs  at  the  bottom  of 
the  dish,  and  over  them  put  a  layer  of  marmalade,  th^i 
another  layer  of  crumbs,  and  so  on,  continually  diminish* 
ing  the  circumference,  so  that  the  pudding  is  conical  in 
shape,  almost  terminating  in  a  point  The  top  layer 
should  be  composed  of  biscuit 

Beat  up  five  whole  eggs  with  half  a  pint  of  milk  and 
a  dram-glass  of  kirsch-wasser ;  pour  this  over  the  pudding, 
and  immediately  set  it,  on  a  three-legged  stand,  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Leave  it  there  for  half  an  hour,  and 
serve  the  instant  it  is  taken  out  of  the  oven. 

Apples  and  Rke.  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice, 
in  a  sufficient  quantify  of  milk,  until  it  is  soft,  adding  an 
«qual  weight  of  sugar  and  some  finely  chopped  lemon- 
peel. 

Pare  ten  apples,  take  out  their  cores  with  a  scoop, 
and  boil  them  until  tender  in  water,  with  some  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.     When  tender,  take  them  out. 


8WEET8  AND  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES,  591 

and  make  a  marmalade  wiUi  some  other  apples  in  iihe 
liquor  in  which  they  were  cooked.  Mix  this  marmalade 
with  the  rice,  adding  four  yolks  of  eggs.  Spread  the 
marmalade  over  the  bottom  of  a  circular  dish;  on  this 
arrange  year  apples,  partially  burying  the  bottom  layer ; 
fill  up  their  hollows  with  currant  jelly  or  any  other  fruit 
preserve ;  pile  the  rest  as  you  would  a  dish*  of  fruit, 
garnishing  with  candied  angelica  in  thin  strips ;  set  it  in 
die  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

Lemon  Pvdding^  Baked j  A,  Mix  together  nine  eggs, 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  their  rinds  finely 
minced.  Line  the  bottom  of  a  pie-dish  with  thin  paste ; 
pour  the  mixture  in ;  and  bake  an  hour  in  a  very  gentle 
•oven* 

Lemon  Pudding ^  BoUedy  B.  Mix  together  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  the  same  quantity  of  beef- 
suet  minced  very  fine,  the  same  of  good  powder  sugar, 
ihe  juice  of  two  lemons,  the  peel  of  one  shred  fine,  and 
ihree  beat-up  eggs.  Put  these  in  a  mould  or  pudding- 
basin  ;  tie  them  down  with  a  well-floured  cloth :  boil  for 
three-quarters  of  an  horn* ;  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce 
(as  for  plum  pudding)  poured  over  your  lemon  pudding. 

Lemjon  Pudding^  C.  So  called,  because  it  is  prin- 
•cipally  composed  of  Apples. 

Obtain  possession  of  an  ordinary  pie-disk  Next, 
procure  a  certain  number  of  apples.  Experiment  will 
teach  you  the  number  of  apples  requisite  to  fill  your 
dish.  Peel  them ;  cut  them  in  quarters ;  take  out  their 
-cores;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  little  powder 


592  SWEETS  Ain)  third-coubse  dishes. 

sugar,  a  little  water  or  cider,  and  the  rind  of  a  smaD 
lemon  minoed  to  microscopic  minuteness.  If  the  season 
is  advanced,  or  your  apples  are  mealy  and  deficient  in 
flavour,  add  the  juice  of  the  lemon.  Boil  these  (with  the 
lid  on)  till  the  apples  are  soft  enough  to  be  crushed  with 
a  fork.  Crush  them  accordingly ;  then  set  them  aside 
to  cool. 

Now  line  the  bottom  and  the  whole  inside  of  your 
pie-dish  (previously  well  buttered)  with  thin  puff-paste. 
This  pudding  scorns,  to  be  hidden  beneath  an  oppressive 
upper  crust  Set  your  dish,  so  lined  with  puff-paste, 
into  the  oven,  to  raise  the  crust  and  cook  it  all  but 
enough. 

Beat  up  well  two  or  three  eggs  with  a  table-spoonful 
of  first-rate  rose-water,  which  will  communicate  a  dis- 
tinguished and  aristocratic  flavour.  Mix  the  beaten 
eggs  with  the  cold  cooked  apple-pulp ;  pour  the  whole 
into  your  pie-dish,  which  ought  to  be  ftdl  without  over- 
flowing. Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  surface.  Bake 
it  in  a  moderate-paced  oven,  neither  too  quick  nor  yet 
too  slow.  On  taking  it  out,  sprinkle  over  it  a  snow- 
shower  of  finely  pounded  sugar. 

This  exquisite  pudding  ought  to  prove  neither  too 
dry,  nor  too  juicy,  nor  impregnated  with  any  too  decided 
flavour.  In  short,  it  ought  to  be  delicate  and  harmo- 
nious. It  is  nourishing,  refreshing,  inviting,  and,  above 
all,  entertaining.  It  is  equally  good  eaten  cold  as  hot ; 
better,  perhaps,  if  it  can  be  better  one  way  than  another. 

Tradition  relates  that  its  invention  is  due  to  the 
daughter  of  the  Druid  who  planted  the  first  apple-tree 


SW££TS  Ain)  THIBD-COURSE  DISHES.  593 

in  Britain,  and  who,  with  her  pocket  fiill  of  lemons,  led 
the  first  colony  of  hens  which  arrived  from  the  East 
Others  hold  Lemon  Padding  to  be  nothing  else  than  the 
^^  Sacred  Cake"  which  the  Dmids,  in  their  Snndaj  cos* 
tmne,  first  offered  np  to  their  gods,  and  which  ihej  ate 
themselves  after  the  ceremony;  washing  down  their 
luncheon  with  successive  draughts  of  beer,  mead,  cider, 
mum,  metheglin,  and  hydromeL  Afl^r  which,  they 
danced  round  the  mistletoe-bough,  some  of  them  jumping 
over  it,  others  remaining  under  it.  However  that  may 
be,  one  thing  is  certain:  that  man's  existence  is  but 
incomplete  who  has  neither  seen  the  Sea,  nor  climbed 
the  Alps,  nor  felt  the  transports  of  Love,  nor  eaten 
Lemon  Pudding. 

A  Light  Sponge  Cake.  To  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  lump-sugar  put  a  teacupful  of  boiling  water.  Set 
it  on  the  fire,  and  make  it  boil.  Then  pom*  it  hot  over 
six  eggs ;  whisk  them  together  for  half  an  hour ;  then 
add  eight  ounces  of  flour,  and  the  minced  peel  of  one 
lemon.  Mix  them  all  well  together,  and  bake  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

A  Plain  Cake^  for  Children.  Well  mix  together 
one  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  carbonate 
of  soda,  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  just  warm,  and  half  a 
pound  of  grocers'  currants  washed  and  steeped  in  tepid 
water.  Add  the  currants  the  last  of  all,  and  bake  in  not 
too  slow  an  oven. 

Steeet  Biscuite*  Mix  half  a  pound  of  butter  with 
half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  six 

QQ 


594  SWEETS  AND  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES. 

eggs,  lialf  a  dozen  drops  of  essence  of  lemon,  and  two 
table-spoonfuls  of  well-washed  coirants.  When  these 
are  thoroughly  beaten  together  and  inoorporated,  laj 
lumps  of  the  mixture  with  a  spoon  on  an  iron  plate,  and 
set  them  in  a  briskish  oven. 

Almond  BigcuitSj  A,  Mix  half  a  pound  of  lump- 
sugar  with  two  ounces  of  bitter  almonds,  two  ounces  of 
sweet  almonds,  the  jolks  of  three  eggs,  and  just  suf- 
ficient flour  to  make  them  a  proper  stifihess  for  rolling 
out.  Cut  into  shapes  with  a  pastry-cutter  or  wine-glass,, 
and  bake  on  an  iron  plate. 

Almond  BiscuiUy  B.  Take  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  poimd  of  fine  powder 
sugar,  and  two  ounces  of  bitter  almonds  blanched  and 
beaten  fine.  Make  these  into  a  paste  with  four  eggs,, 
or  rather  less  in  warm  weather. 

Almond  Biscuits^  C.  Take  one  pound  of  flour,  one 
pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  leaving  out  three  of  the  whites, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds  blanched  and 
poimded,  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  minced  very  fine,  and 
three  ounces  of  butter.  Work  these  well  together  with 
the  hand ;  then  form  the  biscuits,  and  bake  them  on  an 
iron  plate. 

A  Rich  Cake  will  be  the  result  of  working  together 
one  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
butter,  eight  eggs,[two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds  bruised,, 
and  a  glass  of  brandy. 

Bath  Cake  is  composed  of  one  pound  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  four  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  a  teaq>oonM  of  oarraway  seeds^ 


SWEETS  Amy  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES.  595 

and  a  qnarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar.    IMs  cake  must  be 
allowed  to  rise  before  putting  into  the  oven. 

Lemon  Biscuits.  Mix  up  with  three  eggs,  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pound  of 
rolled  lump-sugar,  and  twenty  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 

Common  Biscuits.  Mix  up  with  two  eggs,  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter.  Work  these  up  into  small  round 
balls,  flatten  them  with  your  hands,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Small  Rice  Cakes.  Mix  together,  first,"a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  ground  rice,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
and  half  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar  ground  and  sifted ;  then 
add  four  eggs,  leaving  out  two  of  the  whites,  and  half  a 
pound  of  butter  melted,  but  no  hotter  than  will  bring  it 
to  a  liquid  state.  J£  liked,  you  may  add  a  few  well- 
washed  currants.  Distribute  this  composition  into  cakes, 
in  baking-tins,  and  set  them  into  the  oven  immediately. 
A  brisk  oven  will  bake  them  in  less  than  half  an  hour. 

Lemon  Cakes.  Mix  together  one  pound  of  flour, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
rinds  of  two  lemons  minced  very  fine,  and  four  eggs. 
Roll  them  out  thin,  cut  them  into  shape  with  the  top  of 
a  wine-glass,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven  on  tinned 
sheet-iron  that  has  had  its  surface  buttered. 

Cup  Cakes.  To  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  put  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three  eggs,  a  little  new 
yeast,  six  ounces  of  powder  sugar,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  it  of  a  proper  stiffiiess.  Cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and 
set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise.     While  it  is  rising,  butter 


596  SWKEIS  AND  THIBD-COUBSB  DJSBM8. 

the  iDfiides  of  your  caps ;  fill  them  with  the  cake-paste^ 
and  set  them  in  the  oyen  to  bake.  As  soon  as  done, 
torn  them  ont  of  the  cops,  and  leave  them  bottom  up- 
wards on  a  dish  to  cooL 

jRiee  Cheese^Caies,  Thicken  aqnarter  of  a  poondof 
ground  rice  in  a  little  milk  over  the  fire ;  add  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  washed 
cnrrantsy  and  two  ounces  of  sugar.    Stir  in  three  eggs. 

Butter  the  insides  of  your  patty-pans,  line  them  with 
thin  puff-paste,  fill  them  with  the  above  mixture,  and  set 
into  a  brisk  oven  to  bake. 

Potato  Cheeae-Cakes.  To  make  a  do2sen,  boQ  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  mealy  potatoes,  and  mash  them  welL 
Then  add  to  them  two  table-spoonfhls  of  brandy,  or 
three  of  white  wine,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  oiled,  fi>ur  eggs,  and  the 
rind  of  half  an  orange  minced  very  fina 

Mix  these  ingredients  well  together,  and  bake,  as 
above,  in  hollow  patiy-pans  lined  with  puff-paste. 

Cheese"  Calces.  For  the  ^^  meat,''  or  central  portion  of 
the  cakes,  mix  together  half  a  pound  of  ^^  golden  tegs'* 
(the  slang  term  among  pastcy-cooks  for  potetoes  well 
boiled  and  pounded  fine),  half  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
same  of  powdered  loaf-sugar,  three  beaten-up  eggs,  and 
half  a  pound  of  corrants  that  have  been  well  washed  in 
tepid  water ;  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  white  wine,  crumbs 
of  sponge-cake,  and,  if  you  like,  a  very  small  portion  of 
volatile  salts  to  make  the  whole  light.  Line  the  bottoms 
of  your  patty-pans  with  a  thin  layer  of  the  following 
PastCy  which  will  be  found  valuable  for  many  other 


SWEETS  AND  l^mD-COUBSS  DISHES.  597 

similar  pnrposes.  For  one  pound  of  flour,  take  twelve^ 
ounces  of  butter.  Bub  two  ounces  of  this  into  the  flour 
thoroughly*  Boll  it  out,  put  in  more  dabs  of  butter ; 
dust  it  with  flour;  double  it  up ;  roll  it  out  again ;  dab 
in  more  butter,  and  dust  with  more  flour,  till  the  whole 
paste  is  well  worked  up  together.  The  more  light-fingered 
and  rapid  the  cook  is  in  performing  this,  the  lighter  and 
more  delicate  the  pastry  will  be.  Slow  and  heavy-handed 
pastry-cooks  are  sure  to  turn  o^t  heavy  batches  of  tarts 
and  puflb,  no  matter  what  amount  of  good  things  they 
may  put  into  them. 

For  Sweet  Paste j  use  the  same  proportions  of  flour 
and  butter  as  before,  with  the  addition  of  a  small  quantity 
of  powdered  loaf-sugar ;  beat  up  two  eggs  thoroughly 
well,  and  mix  with  lliem  a  sufSciency  of  cold  water  to 
make  up  the  paste  with.  The  only  other  difference  in 
this  case  is,  that  (dl  the  butter  is  rubbed  into  the  flour 
previous  to  mixing,  so  that  the  paste  only  requires  once 
rolling  out. 

Paste  for  Standing  Crust.  Put  three  pints  of  cold 
water  into  a  saucepan,  to  which  add  three  pounds  of 
tried-up  beef-suet  (Le.  beef-suet  that  has  been  melted), 
and  three  pounds  of  butter,  and  let  it  remain  over  the 
fire  till  all  is  liquid.  Pour  it  boiling  hot  into  your  flour, 
and  make  it  into  a  stiff  paste.  The  quantify  of  flour 
cannot  be  exactly  stated  in  weight,  as  some  flour  will 
absorb  more  liquid  than  some  other.  When  cool  enough 
to  handle,  mould  and  shape  it  into  the  form  required  for 
your  pasties  or  patls.  The  above  is  sufficient  for  a  good- 
sized  goose  pie. 


598  SWJEBTB  AJSiD  THIB]>-COUBSE  DISHES. 

Lemon  Cheete^CaieA,  Take  six  oonoes  of  baiter; 
melt  it ;  then  add  six  onnoeB  of  sugar  rolled  fine,  die 
yolks  of  fonr  eggs,  and  the  white  of  one.  Beat  np  these 
well  together,  and  to  them  add  the  rind  of  one  lemon 
grated  very  fine  (or,  better,  peeled  exceedingly  thin,  and 
minoed  with  a  knife),  the  juice  of  half  the  lemon,  and  a 
small  wine-glass  of  brandy. 

Line  yonr  patty-pans  with  light  puff-paste,  fill  them 
with  the  above  ingredi^ts,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven, 
taking  care  the  cheese-cakes  do  not  bnm. 

G<yughre  au  Frcmage — A  veritable  Cheeee-  Cake.  [From 
an  old  French  Mannscript]  Put  into  a  stew-pan  three- 
quarters  of  a  tumbler  of  water,  with  three  ounces  of 
fresh  butter  and  a  little  salt  When  the  water  boils, 
throw  in  six  ounces  of  flour,  and  keep  stirring  till  the 
paste  is  well  cooked.  Then  take  the  stew-pan  off  the 
fire,  and  add  to  the  mixture,  first,  four  yolks  of  eggs ; 
then  their  whites  beaten  to  a  froth ;  then  three  ounces  of 
Gruy^re  cheese  cut  up  into  little  bits.  Mix  the  whole 
well  together. 

When  these  ingredients  are  thoroughly  combined, 
spread  the  paste  in  the  form  of  a  circular  cake  on  a 
plate  of  sheet-iron;  lay  on  the  top  thin  slices  of  cheese; 
glaze  the  whole  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  and  set  it  in 
the  oven,  heated  exactly  as  if  for  baking  bread.  Leave 
it  there  five-and-twenfy  minutes,  and  send  it  to  table 
piping  hot 

There  is  nothing  nicer  than  this  Beal  Cheeee^Cake. — 
Baron  BrUse. 

PvUed-Bread  BiscuiL     The  word  Us^euitj  meaning 


BWEETS  AND  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES.  599 

^^  twice  cooked/*  is  particnlarly  applicable  to  this  pre« 
paration. 

Take  the  cromb  of  bread  or  roll,  if  under-baked  all 
the  better^  and  pull  it  with  the  fingers  into  irregular" 
43haped  pieces  not  larger  than  a  walnut  Laj  them  on 
;an  iron  plate,  not  touching  nor  piled  over  each  other, 
and  set  them  into  a  brisk  oven  until  their  outside  is  crisp 
and  of  a  bright,  light  brown.  They  make  a  pleasant  and 
wholesome  accompaniment  to  cheese,  radishes,  caviare, 
or  other  hors  d'ceuvres. 

Wine  Biscuits.  Mix  eight  ounces  of  flour  with  six 
ounces  of  butter,  six  ounces  of  pounded  loaf-sugar,  one 
eggy  and  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  lemon. 

Boll  out  this  paste  thin,  and  bake  the  biscuits  briskly 
on  plates  of  tin-iron  buttered. 

CrcLcknels.  Beat  up  thirteen  eggs  with  a  quarter  of 
tk  pound  of  powdered  loaf-sugar  until  they  are  quite  light ; 
then  stir  in  three  pounds  of  flour  and  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  volatile  salts  reduced  to  a  very  fine  powder. 
When  these  are  well  mixed  together,  roll  out  the  paste 
to  the  thickness  you  approve ;  cut  out  your  cracknels 
with  a  wine-glass  or  a  tumbler ;  throw  them  into  boiling 
^ater  for  one  or  two  minutes ;  then  put  them  into  cold 
"water.  Take  them  out  soon  afterwards,  and  bake  in 
Tather  a  quick  oven. 

Gingerbread^  Ju  There  are  probably  several  scores 
•of  towns  and  villages  which  claim  the  honour,  not  of 
being  Homer's  birthplace,  but  of  fiimishing  the  best 
gingerbread  in  the  world.  The.  Doctor  would  be  sorry 
ito  have  to  decide  between  them.    To  avoid  jealousy,  he 


600  SWEETS  Ain>  THIKD-COUBSE  DISHES. 

sappressea  the  name  of  the  locality  which  supplies  the 
following : 

Mix  together  a  pound  and  a  half  of  floor,  a  pound  of 
sugary  a  pound  of  treacle,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  grated  ginger,  and  half  an  ounce  of 
pounded  cloves.    Make  up  into  cakes  and  bake. 

Very  peculiar,  and  not  unpleasing,  gingerbreads  of 
Teutonic  origin  are  produced  by  flavouring  highly  with 
cinnamon,  and  substituting  honey  for  treade. 

Gingerbready  B,  [Mrs.  Smith's.]  The  same  pru- 
dentaal  reasons  restrain  us  fix>m  divulging  to  trAtcA  Mrs. 
Smith  we  are  indebted  for  this : 

Take  one  pound  of  treacle,  one  pound  of  flour,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  candied  peel,  and  one 
ounce  of  ginger  in  powder.  Beat  up  all  well  together; 
make  it  into  a  shape  that  pleases  you,  and  set  it  iamme^ 
diately  into  the  oven.     Bake  in  tins. 

Ginfferbrecdy  (7.  Stir  well  together  the  following 
three  ingredients :  two  pounds  of  flour,  one  ounce  of 
ground  ginger,  and  a  bumping  table-spoonful  of  baking- 
powder.     Then  mix  in  two  pounds  of  treacle. 

Bake  the  gingerbread  in  a  slow  oven,  putting  it  in  as 
soon  as  made. 

Of  this  economical  receipt,  our  lady  friends  re- 
mark, that  it  would  be  improved  by  the  addition  of 
butter.  Other  amateurs  are  of  opinion  that  it  would  be 
all  the  better  for  a  little  more  ginger.  Others,  again, 
flavour  their  gingerbread  with  allspice,  nutmeg,  pepper, 
or  cayenne,  or  any  Qther  aromatics  they  happen  to 
£mcy.     Th(B  danger  lies  in  overdoing  it,  by  making  the 


8WEKTS  Aim  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES.  601 

mixture  too  hot  of  the  spice.  Baking  is  a  nioe  point : 
it  must  not  be  set  in  a  fierce  oven,  so  as  to  get  burned, 
or  even  crusty,  like  household  bread;  but  in  a  slow 
oven,  and  with  careful  watching. 

'  Gingerbreadj  D  (Plain).  Largely  made  for  sale. 
Put  one  pound  and  three-quarters  of  treacle  into  a 
saucepan ;  set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  till  it  begins 
to  boil  up.  Then  pour  it  into  a  large  basin ;  let  it  stand 
till  almost  cold.  Stir  in  half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  an 
ounce  of  alum,  and  an  ounce  of  ^^  American  ash."  Let 
it  stand  till  next  morning;  then  add  a  few  carrawaj- 
seeds,  a  few  pounded  doves,  and  one  ounce  of  ground 
ginger.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Gingerbreadj  E.  Knead  well  together  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  flour,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter. 
Then  add  a  little  ground  cinnamon  and  mace,  an  ounce 
of  ground  ginger,  a  little  candied  peel,  and  a  pound  of 
treacle.     Drop  it  on  tins,  and  bake  slowly. 

Gingerbread^  F.  Knead  together  one  pound  of  flour, 
half  a  pound  of  powder  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  butter, 
four  table-spoonfuls  of  ground  ginger,  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  chopped  fine,  and  as  much  treacle  as  will  enable 
you  to  drop  it  on  baking  tins.  Do  it  crisp,  without 
burning. 

Gingerbread^  6r.  In  a  large  earthen  pan  put  half  a 
pound  of  butter  melted,  one  pound  of  powder  sugar, 
half  a  pound  of  treacle,  one  ounce  of  ground  or  grated 
ginger.  Beat  all  well  together;  add  one  ounce  of 
candied  lemon-peel,  and  then  beat  in  as  much  flour  as 
will  make  the  whole  into  a  very  stiff  paste. 


^2  SWEETS  AND  THIBD<-COUBSE  DISHES. 

Lemon  Drops*  Mix  togeiiher  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
loaf-sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  six  ounces  of 
flour,  the  yolk  of  one  ^gg^  a  teaspoonM  of  oold  water, 
iind  a  little  fine-minced  lemon-peel.  Drop  lumps  of  this 
•composition,  the  size  of  a  walnut,  on  a  buttered  tin  plate, 
and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven. 

Raic^  Drops.  Beat  ihe  white  of  an  egg  to  a  froth ; 
^d  to  it  one  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  blanched  and 
pounded  fine.  Over  these,  sifl;  six  ounces  ^of  pounded 
loaf-sugar.  Drop  the  paste  so  formed  in  small  spoonfuls 
on  paper,  and  bake  in  a  smart  oven. 

Sponge  Cake.  Mix  together  five  ounces  of  flour  and 
the  peel  of  half  a  lemon  chopped  very  fine. 

Break  six  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  to  them  the  juice  of 
the  half-lemon  and  six  ounces  of  sugar.  Beat  them  well 
up  with  a  fork;  when  nicely  risen,  stir  in  quickly  the 
flour  and  lemon-peel,  fill  your  cake-moulds  instantly, 
^set  them  in  the  oven,  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

Country  Cake.  Beat  to  the  consistency  of  thick 
•cream,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound 
of  oiled  butter,  and  the  yolks  of  six  eggs.  Beat  up  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  separately  with  three-quarters  of  a 
pound  of  lump-sugar  rolled  fine.  When  frothckl,  mix  all 
together,  and  bake  briskly  about  twenty  minutes. 

Tea  Cakes.  Mix  two  table-spoonfiils  of  yeast  with 
two  pounds  of  flour  and  three  eggs.  Melt  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  pint  of  milk.  Mix  all  together  to  a  batter, 
and  set  it  before  the  fire  to  rise  like  bread.  Butter  ilie 
insides  of  patty-pans  or  tea-saucers,  fiU  them  with  batter, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.      TV^en  the  upper  surfiioe 


SWEETS  AND  THIBD-C0T7BSE  DISHES.  603 

of  the  cakes  is  done,  tarn  them,  to  brown  the  nnder 
side. 

Sugar  Biscuits.  Mix  well  together  a  ponnd  of  flour, 
a  pound  of  pounded  lump-sugar,  a  few  blanched  and 
pounded  almonds,  six  table-spoonfuls  of  rose-water,  and 
eight  eggs  beaten  up  to  froth.  When  thoroughly  blended, 
put  portions  of  the  mixture  into  small  tins  of  various 
shapes,  and  bake  them  with  only  the  heat  of  an  oven 
after  the  bread  is  drawn,  keeping  the  oven-door  well 
closed. 

Rock  Cakes.  Put  well  together  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
-flour  and  half  a  pound  of  butter.  Then  add  half  a  pound 
of  fine  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  four  eggs,  six 
table-spoon  Alls  of  good  cream,  a  wine-glass  of  brandy, 
and  a  little  mace.  When  completely  mixed,  drop  on  paper 
lumps  about  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven. 

A  lAgld  Plain  Cake.  Knead  together  two  pounds  of 
lakers'  dough,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
washed  currants,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  candied  lemon- 
peel,  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  one  grated  nutmeg,  four 
eggs,  and  a  dust  of  ground  ginger.  When  these  are 
well  incorporated,  let  your  cake  stand  an  hour  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  before  baking. 

Soda  Cake^  Mix  well  a  teaspoonftd  of  carbonate 
of  soda  with  a  pound  of  flour.  Put  to  it  half  a  pound  of 
butter  melted,  three  eggs  well  beaten  up,  half  a  pound 
of  currants,  half  a  pound  of  powder  sugar,  and  a  few 
bruised  carraway-seeds.  As  soon  as  all  is  thoroughly 
incorporated,  bake  your  cake  in  a  brisk  oven. 


604  SWXET8  ASD  THIBD-GOUBSE  DI8H£S. 

Baked  CtisUxrd  in  a  Saucepan^  with  Bumt^Sugar 
Sauce — Flan  Anglaie  au  CarameL  Make  an  ordiiuuy 
custard  of  six  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk,  leaving  out  three 
of  the  whites  (which  will  make  another  yeiy  prettjr  dish), 
and,  above  all  things,  flavour  the  custard.  Nothing  is 
so  disappointing  as  insipid  cookeiy. 

Have  a  small  enamel-lined  saucepan  with  a  flat  cover. 
Put  into  this  a  few  lumps  of  white  sugar,  and  very  litde 
water,  only  sufficient  to  moisten  the  sugar.  Let  it  be  on 
the  stove  till  it  begins  to  assume  a  bright  golden  tinge ; 
then  take  it  ofi^,  or  it  will  speedilj  be  black.  In  a  few 
seconds,  it  will  be  a  nice  bright  brown;  then  add  as  much 
water  as  it  will  bear.  It  must  not  taste  watery,  neither 
must  it  be  syrup.  Practice  alone  will  guide  you  in  this. 
Never  mind  wasting  a  few  lumps  of  sugar;  for  yotu: 
lesson  in  cooking  will  not,  even  then,  be  very  expensive. 
You  must  turn  and  twist  the  saucepan  about,  until  the 
caramel  (that  is  its  name)  has  touched  the  side  all  round. 
Then  pour  in  the  custard,  put  on  the  lid  (which  you 
must  strew  with  hot  embers),  and  let  it  do  gently  for 
about  the  same  time  that  you  would  bake  it  It  will 
turn  out  veiy  well,  and  is  a  pleasing  change.  It  is 
eaten  as  often  hot  as  cold. 

Pommee  Menngvdea — Apple  Meringoa*  Made  with 
the  whites  of  eggs  left  above. 

Pare  and  cut  up  two  apples ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  some  sugar ;  let  them 
boil  to  a  marmalade ;  then  spread  them  on  a  small,  flat 
dish. 

While  they  are  cooling,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 


8WEET8  XSD  THIRD-COUBSB  DISHES.  605 

to  a  firm  firoih  with  some  pounded  sugar.  When  quite 
stiff,  with  two  dessert-spoons  shape  this  firoth  into 
fneringuea  or  meringos  (egg-shaped  lumps),  which  you 
must  place  side  by  side  over  the  marmalade,  until  you 
have  covered  it  and  completely  hidden  the  apples.  Strew 
pounded  sugar  very  lightly  over  it ;  put  it  into  a  quick 
oven  for  a  few  minutes,  till  crisp  and  bright  yellow. 
Serve  instantly ;  it  is  good  for  nothing  cold.  If  you 
have  a  lemon  at  hand,  it  will  improve  the  flavour  of  the 
apples  to  put  a  little  both  of  the  rind  and  the  juice  into 
the  marmalade.— -Zondbn  Society. 

Virgtn  Cream.  Boil  half  a  pint  of  cream  in  a  quart 
of  milk,  with  sugar  and  lemon-peel,  until  it  is  reduced  to 
one-half  the  quantity.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  and  when 
it  is  tepid  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs ;  strain  it, 
and  thicken  it  in  a  hot-water  bath,  stirring  continually. 
When  done,  pour  it  into  a  deep,  hollow  dish. 

Then  whip  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  whisk. 
Take  the  fi\>th  as  it  rises,  and  pile  it  over  the  cream  in 
the  dish,  heaping  it  as  high  as  you  can.  When  you  can 
add  no  more,  dust  it  with  finely  pounded  sugar,  and  set 
it  under  a  salamander  to  glaze. 

Rice  Cream.  Stir  ground  rice  into  warm,  firesh  milk, 
with  sugar  and  half  a  dozen  egg-yolks..  Thicken  it  over 
a  gentle  fire,  stirring  all  the  while,  and  serve  hot 

Boiled  Cuetardsy  which  the  French  call  Crimes. 
These  must  be  concocted  over  a  very  slow  fire ;  but  by 
&r  the  best  way  is  to  do  them  in  a  hot-water  bath. 

For  the  proportions :  To  every  pint  of  thin  cream 
put  three  eggs,  leaving  out  the  white  of  one ;  stir  these 


606  8WSET8  AND  THIBD-COUBSB  DISHES. 

together  steadily  bat  continaoiislj,  sweetening  to  jour 
taste.  It  is  nsual  to  flavour  boiled  custards  with 
lemon-peel  and  brandy ;  bnt  their  taste  may  be  varied 
with  the  same  ingredients  as  mentioned  for  Blancmange. 
When  worked  to  the  proper  consistency  and  smoothness, 
ponr  your  costard  into  glasses  (or,  better,  into  old  china 
teacups),  grate  a  dust  of  nutmeg  over  the  top  of  each, 
and  store  them  till  wanted  in  the  coolest  comer  of  your 
pantry. 

Boiled  Custards  are  often  made  by  substituting^ 
arrowroot  for  eggs,  and  the  result  is  perfectly  satis- 
factory to  the  palate.  This  economical  change  is  all  very 
well  for  persons  who  eat  custard  merely  to  play  with  a 
spoon  and  tickle  their  mouth ;  bnt  for  the  sustaining  or 
a  weakly  frame,  give  us  the  eggs  instead  of  the  arrow- 
root 

Syllabubs  are  best  made  the  day  before  they  are- 
wanted,  or,  at  any  rate,  early  in  the  morning,  if  they 
are  to  be  sent  to  table  the  same  evening.  They  require- 
time  to  settle  and  let  their  froth  get  firm. 

Whenever  you  intend  to  make  them,  steep,  ocemighty 
the  thin  rind  of  two  lemons  in  a  pint  of  white  wine,, 
covered  down  close. 

Next  day,  remove  the  lemon-peel  from  the  wine,  and 
put  it  in  a  large  bowl  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  rich 
cream,  three  table-spoonfrils  of  brandy,  and  the  juice  of' 
the  two  lemons ;  sweeten  to  taste. 

Beat  these  to  a  froth  with  your  whisk  of  osier-twigs, 
Have  your  syllabub-glasses  at  hand  on  a  tray,  and  as- 
&st  as  the  froth  rises,  skim  it  off  with  a  table  or  gravy^ 


SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COUBSE  DISHES.  607 

spoon,  and  ladle  it  into  yonr  Byllabab-glasses,  heaping  it 
as  high  as  you  can  get  it  to  hang  together.  Continue 
whisking  with  all  your  might  and  main  till  there  is 
nothing  more  left  in  the  bowl  to  whisk.  Then  set  your 
tray,  laden  with  syllabubs,  in  the  coolest  nook  you  have, 
that  is  free  from  dust,  draughts,  and  intrusive  cats. 
Syllabub-whisking  is  good  exercise  for  young  ladies,, 
and  might  be  made  an  agreeable  branch  of  calisthenics 
in  female  educational  establishments. 

Solid  Syllabub.  Put  into  a  bowl  three-quarters  of  a 
pint  of  cream  and  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon ;  mix 
these  well  together,  and  flavour  with  sweet  wine,  brandy,, 
and  sugar  to  your  taste.- 

Put  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  saucepan,  with  half  a 
pint  of  water,  and  boil  it  slowly,  with  a  piece  of  lemon- 
peel  in  it,  until  the  isinglass  is  quite  dissolved.  Then 
pour  it  into  the  bowl  over  the  other  ingredients,  stirring 
well  for  five  minutes.  Then  pass  it  through  a  cullender,, 
and  put  it  into  your  moulds,  to  cool  and  stiiSen. 

If  this  syllabub  is  to  be  served  in  glasses,  a  smaller 
quantiiy  of  isinglass  will  suffice. 

SyUoibub  under  the  Cow.  Put  into  a  large  china 
bowl  a  good  handful  of  sugar  in  lumps,  over  which  pour 
half  a  bottle  of  sherry,  Madeira,  or  other  good  white 
wine,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  half  a  bottle  of  old  cider. 
When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  take  it  to  a  cow  warranted 
not  to  kick,  and  have  the  cow  milked  into  the  bowl,  so 
that  the  froth  shall  rise  in  a  heap  over  its  contents.  Milk 
it  as  fiill  as  it  will  hold  without  running  over.  Set  it  on 
a  table,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  of  th& 


608  SWEETS  AND  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES. 

froiL    Then  put  it  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  a  few  hours; 
if  all  night,  so  much  the  better. 

N.B.  Tiy  to  get  jour  syllabub  made  at  one  of  the 
cow's  milking  times.  Let  her  be  half  milked  into  ihe 
pail,  and  then  present  your  bowl  to  receive  what  comes 
afterwards.  The  last  milk  from  the  udder  is  the  richest ; 
the  very  last,  called  ^^  the  strippings,"  is  the  richest  of 
alL 

Syllabub  under  the  Caw,  without  a  Caw.  Fill  a  laige 
teapot  Witt  fresh,  tepid  milk,  wifli  which  you  may  mix  a 
little  cream.  Set  the  bowl,  with  the  wine,  &c,  on  the 
floor.  Mount  the  highest  stool  or  table  in  the  house,  and 
from  that  eminence  pour  the  milk  out  of  the  teapot  into 
the  bowl,  frothing  it  as  much,  and  spilling  it  as  little,  as 
possible. 

You  will  succeed  even  better  (in  the  unavoidable 
absence  of  the  cow),  by  putting  the  warm  milk  into  a 
large,  powerful  syringe,  and  so  squirting  it  violently  into 
the  bowl.  Where  there's  a  will,  there's  a  way,  even  to 
make  sub-vaccine  syllabub.  The  French  kitchen  voca«- 
bulary  contains  no  word  for  syllabub. 

Artificial  Cream,  to  eat  with  Fruit  or  Fruit  TarL 
Put  a  pint  of  new  milk  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  couple  of 
lumps  of  sugar,  set  it  on  a  very  slow  fire,  or  the  hot 
iron  plate  of  a  cooking-stove ;  break  into  it  the  yolks  of 
two  new-laid  eggs,  and  keep  stirring  always  one  way, 
tmtil  it  becomes  as  thick  as  ordinary  cream.  It  must 
never  reach  the  boiling  point. 

Lemon  Cream.  Beat  up  well  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
and  the  yolk  of  one ;  add  to  them  the  juice  of  two  large 


SWEETS  AKD  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES.  609 

lemons,  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  half  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  pounded  fine.  Mix  these  well  together ;  set  them 
in  a  stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire,  stirring  constantly  the 
same  way.  When  warm,  put  in  the  rind  of  one  lemon, 
peeled  very  thin,  to  make  it  yield  its  volatile  oil  the  more 
readily.  When  of  a  proper  consistency,  remove  the 
lemon-peel,  and  take  your  cream  off  the  fire.  On  no 
account  may  it  be  allowed  to  boil. 

Blancmange.  For  two  pints  of  new  milk,  allow  one 
pint  of  cream  and  two  ounces  of  isinglass.  Flavour 
with  lemon-peel,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste.  Boil  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  then  remove  the  lemon-peel.  When 
nearly  cold,  add  a  wine-glass  of  sherry  and  a  liqueur- 
glass  of  brandy,  and  pour  into  your  mould  to  cool  and 
stiffen. 

The  flavour  of  Blancmange  is  open  to  considerable 
variation ;  which  is  desirable  for  invalids,  to  whom  it  may 
be  needful  to  offer  it  frequently.  For  this  purpose,  cin- 
namon, rose-water,  orange-flower-water,  and  vanilla  will 
render  good  service.  Half  a  stick  of  vanilla  will  suffice ; 
and  (N.B.),  if  washed  and  dried  after  using,  it  will 
serve  for  several  times,  either  for  blancmange,  custards, 
creams,  or  other  delicate  and  sweet  preparations.  Never- 
theless, it  must  be  admitted  that  the  second  flavouring 
yielded  by  vanilla  has  a  strong  resemblance  (in  conse- 
quence of  weakness)  to  the  second  sweetwort  drawn 
from  malt,  and  the  second  brewing  from  the  gossips'  tea- 
pot, when  economy  forbids  the  putting  in  a  few  more 
pinches  of  Hyson  and  Pekoe. 

Jaumange.     "Which  will  you  take,  ma'am, — Blue 

BB 


610  SWEBTS  AND  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES. 

Mange,  or  Jew  Mange?"  is  a  question  we  once  heard 
put  by  a  host  who  was  ignorant  of  the  French  etymology 
of  those  dishes,  namely,  that  Blanc  Manger  meant,  to 
eat  something  white ;  and  Jaune  Manger^  to  eat  something 
yellow.  There  is  no  Blue  at  all,  and,  still  more  luckily, 
no  Jew,  to  be  eaten. 

Dissolve  over  the  fire  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  pint 
of  water,  with  the  peel  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Let 
it  stand  aside  for  a  while,  to  imbibe  the  flavour  of  the 
Lemon-peel.  Then  remove  the  lemon-peel,  and  stir  in 
gently  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Sweeten  to  your  taste,  and  pour  it  into  moulds  to  cool. 

Coffee  Creanu  Into  three  pints  of  cream  put  Iwo 
dessert-spoonfuls  of  ground  coffee  and  sugar,  to  taste. 
Boil  it  for  half  an  hour ;  then  let  it  stand  to  settle.  Pour 
off  the  cream  from  the  coffee-grounds,  and  mix  in  eight 
egg-yolks,  in  a  hot-water  bath,  simmering  until  it  is  of 
the  consistency  of  thick-boiled  custard.  Serve  in  cups 
or  glasses,  with  a  ratafia  or  small  macaroon  on  the  top  of 
each  cream. 

VaniUa  Cream.  Boil  a  stick  (or  less)  of  vanilla  in  a 
quart  of  milk,  until  it  has  imbibed  the  perfume.  Take 
it  off  the  fire,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste,  removing  the 
vanUla,  which  will  serve  for  several  times,  if  washed  and 
laid  aside  to  dry,  supposing  you  are  content  with  the 
mildest  of  flavours. 

Break  six  egg-yolks  and  one  whole  egg  into  a. bowl ; 
beat  them  up ;  pour  in  your  milk,  stirring  all  the  while, 
to  mix  them  completely.  Then  thicken  as  before  in  the 
hot- water  bath,  and  serve  in  the  same  way. 


SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COUBSE  DISHES.  611 

Tea  Cream*  Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  over 
green  tea  in  a  teapot.  Put  the  lid  on,  and  let  it  stand 
on  your  hot  plate  to  infuse  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 
Then  pour  off  the  milk,  mix  it  with  a  quart  of  good 
cream,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  sweeten  to  taste, 
and  thicken  in  a  hot-water  bath,  or  over  a  very  gentle 
ifire. 

Chocolate  Cream.  Take  half  a  pound  of  chocolate, 
•cut  it  into  thin  shavings,  steep  it  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
-set  it  over  the  fire,  and  crush  it  smooth  as  it  heats;  then 
gradually  pour  in  a  quart  of  milk,  stirring  continually. 
Mix  ten  egg-yolks  with  half  a  pint  of  rich,  sweet  cream, 
stir  them  into  your  chocolate  and  milk,  and  thicken  as 
before  in  the  hot-water  bath. 

Pancakesy  Plain.  The  batter  for  these  should  be 
made  three  or  four  hours  beforehand,  in  order  to  allow 
it  time  to  rise,  and  insure  the  pancakes  being  light 

For  a  moderate  quantity,  break  four  eggs  into  a  large 
(bowl ;  add  to  them  a  tablespoonful  of  yeast,  a  teaspoon- 
'ftd  of  salt,  a  glass  of  brandy,  and  a  little  powdered 
cinnamon  or  grated  nutmeg.  Beat  up  these  well  to- 
gether. 

In  another  smaller  basin  mix  as  much  flour  and  milk 
:a8  will  bring  the  whole  to  the  proper  consistency  of 
batter.  When  it  is  smooth,  mix  it  with  the  ingredients 
in  the  larger  bowl.  Cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  in 
a  warm  place  to  work. 

When  the  pancakes  are  fi*ied,  it  is  better  to  send 
them  to  table,  hot  and  hot,  in  small  quantities,  instead 
of  waiting  till  all  are  done.     Let  them  be  accompanied 


612  SWEETS  Am>  THIBD-COnBSE  DISHES. 

by  pounded  sugar  and  oranges  cnt  in  halves,  to  sqneeze 
the  juice  over  them. 

Apple  Pancakes.  Make  the  paste  or  batter  as  above, 
adding  to  it  a  few  apples,  peeled,  cored,  and  chopped  very 
small.  These  must  be  stirred  up  in  the  batter  each  time 
a  pancake  is  taken  £rom  it  They  render  the  pancakes 
light  and  delicate ;  but  too  much  apple  makes  them  fidl 
to  pieces  in  the  frying. 

German  Pancakes.  Beat  half  a  pound  of  butter  to 
a  cream;  mix  with  it  half  a  pound  of  flour,  half  a  pound 
of  sugar,  twelve  egg-yolks,  and  a  pint  of  lukewarm 
cream.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  snow,  and  add 
them  together  with  a  little  powdered  cinnamon  and 
lemon-peel  cut  thin  and  chopped  very  fine. 

The  pancakes  are  to  be  done  on  one  side  only,  and 
placed  in  a  pile  one  over  the  other,  so  as  to  form  a  cake, 
sugar  and  cinnamon  being  strewn  between  each.  The 
pile  to  be  cut  downwards  like  a  cake,  and  served  with 
wine  or  jelly  sauce. 

Whipped  Cream.  Put  a  quart  of  good  cream  into  a 
large  bowl ;  mix  in  a  basin  the  white  of  an  egg  with 
orange-flower  or  rose-water,  and  pounded  lump-sugar. 
Stir  this  well  into  the  cream,  and  whip  with  a  whisk. 
As  the  froth  rises,  remove  it  with  a  ladle,  and  pile  it  on 
your  dish.  You  may  garnish  it  round  with  candied 
lemon-peel.     It  is  eaten  with  cake  or  cooked  fruit 

Some  cooks  use  a  little  gum-arabic  dissolved  in  water 
instead  of  the  white  of  egg. 

Charlotte  Russe^  with  Cream^  Line  the  inside  of  a 
mould  with  sponge  biscuits.      Fill  up  the  whole  of  the 


SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES.  613 

interior  with  whipped  cream  (eitlier  the  preceding,  or 
any  modification  of  it),  surround  your  mould  with  ice, 
and  turn  out  the  Charlotte  just  before  serving. 

Charlotte  of  Apples  (French).  Butter  well  the 
bottom  and  sides  of  an  iron  mould,  and  line  it  with 
slices  of  jQried  bread.  Fill  the  interior  with  apples  pre- 
pared as  for  apple  sauce,  only  they  may  be  more  cooked 
and  reduced  in  quantity,  so  as  to  make  them  into  a  sort 
of  apple  marmalade.  The  addition  of  a  beat-up  egg 
with  the  apple  will  help  it  to  hold  together  better. 
Cover  the  marmalade  with  a  slice  of  toasted  bread  cut 
into  a  shape  which  will  close  the  whole  completely. 
The  mould  should  have  a  metal  lid.  Put  it  into  the 
oven  for  half  an  hour  or  so,  where  it  will  brown  without 
burning.  Turn  it  out  whole  on  a  dish,  and  serve  as  it 
is.     No  sauce  or  garnishing  is  needed. 

Charlottes  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  with  an 
outer  case  of  bread,  containing  other  cooked  fruit — as 
pears,  apricots,  gooseberries,  greengages,  &c. 

German  Apple  Pie.  Boil  apples  cut  into  quarters 
in  as  little  water  as  possible,  with  a  glass  of  red  wine, 
some  sugar,  and  lemon-peel.  When  cold,  put  them 
into  a  pie -dish  that  has  been  well  smeared  with 
butter. 

Then  stir  into  a  little  cream  a  spoonful  of  butter 
melted.  Add  nine  eggs,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  flour, 
a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  pound  of  sugar.  Mix  all  well 
together,  pour  it  slowly  over  the  apples,  and  bake. 

Cold  Cherry  Dish  (Gtermaii).  Boil  fresh,  ripe 
cherries  in  sugar-and-water,  until  they  fall  to  pieces. 


614  8WEETS  AKD  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES. 

Add  sufficient  potato-flour  or  arrowroot  to  thicken  them^ 
and  pour  them  into  a  dish  to  cooL 

Trifle  is  much  better^  made  the  day  before.  Take- 
a*large  round  or  oval  glass  dish;  fill  it  a  little  more- 
ihan  half-full  with  sponge  biscuits,  macaroons,  and 
ratafia  drops.  Soak  them  with  any  sweet  white  wine. 
Distribute  amongst  them,  in  small  spoonfuls,  currant 
jelly  and  raspberry  jam.  Pour  over  that  a  little  boiled 
custard,  by  way  of  sauce,  and  cover  the  whole  completely 
with  whipped  cream  or  syllabub  froth. 

Tipsy  Cake,  Have  an  oval  glass  dish.  Bake  a 
sponge  cake  that  will  fit  nicely  into  it  in  a  mould  the 
shape  of  a  porcupine  or  other  hog-shaped  animal. 

Blanche  a  lot  of  sweet  almonds,  and  split  thein 
lengthwise.  Stick  them  all  over  the  back  of  the  por- 
cupine, to  represent  quills.  Set  it  in  the  dish,  and  pour 
round  it  (not  over  it)  as  much  Madeira,  sherry,  or  other 
strong  white  wine  as  it  will  absorb,  to  which  some  add 
brandy  and  rum. 

Tlie  addition  of  custard,  syllabub,  or  jam,  is  contrary 
to  the  traditions  of  the  supper-table.  Tipsy  Cake  is  not 
Trifle,  but  something  much  more  serious. 

BeiffnetSy  Frittei'Sy  are  simply  fruit  (whole,  halved, 
or  in  slices)  dipped  in  batter,  and  fried.  When  well 
executed,  and  served  hot,  they  make  a  light  and  elegant 
third-course  dish,  which  is  sure  to  be  received  witb 
favour. 

For  the  Batter^  mix  two  spoonfuls  of  oil  (or  oiled 
butter)  with  a  pint  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little- 
water.     Then  add  two  egg-yolks,  and  gradually  pour  im 


SWEETS  AND  THIBD-COURSE  DISHES.  615 

as  much  water  as  will  bring  the  whole  to  the  consistency 
of  thick  cream.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
frothy  and  add  them.  You  may  put  in  a  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  yeast ;  and  if  you  can  keep  the  batter  in  a  warm 
place  for  a  couple  of  hours,  it  will  be  all  the  lighter. 

Apple  Fritters.  Peel  the  apples  ;  slice  them  across 
into  rounds,  from  which  you  will  remove  the  cores.  Dip 
them  in  the  batter,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown  and  until 
tender.  Pile  them  regularly  in  the  dish,  and  dust  with 
sugar  before  serving. 

Oil  is  the  best  to  fry  them  in ;  but  whatever  fat  you 
employ,  it  is  of  no  use  attempting  Fritters  unless  you 
have  plenty  of  it. 

Some  steep  the  sliced  apples  in  brandy  before  dipping 
them  into  the  batter. 

Apricots  and  Peachesy  halved,  and  Oranges^  sliced, 
are  also  made  into  Fritters,  which  are  much  admired ; 
but  the  peach  loses  flavour  by  cooking,  while  that  of  the 
apricot  is  concentrated.  The  orange  lends  itself  to  cook- 
ing with  a  very  bad  grace.  Large  Strawberries  make 
delicious  Fritters,  but  it  is  clear  that  they  must  have  a 
deep  pan  of  fat  to  be  immersed  in. 

Pear  Fritters  are  cooked  like  Apple. 
Potato  Fritters.  Boast  potatoes  in  the  ashes.  When 
done,  put  their  contents  in  a  basin,  and  pound  them 
with  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  cream  and  butter,  and  a 
glass  of  brandy.  Mash  with  them  a  beat-up  egg,  till 
you  get  a  paste  thick  enough  to  roll  into  balls.  When 
quite  cold,  dip  ihem  in  batter  and  fry  theuL  Dust  with 
sugar  before  serving  them. 


616  SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES. 

HoUow  Fritters  still  retain  their  old  French  name 
(^Pets  de  Nonne)j  though  quite  incompatible  with  modem 
deUcacj. 

Boil  die  rind  of  a  lemon  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
lamp  of  sugar,  in  a  pint  of  water.  When  it  has  had  a 
good  boil  up,  remove  the  lemon-peel,  and  stir  into  it  a 
pint  of  flour  previouslj  mixed  with  a  little  water.  Do 
this  gradually,  stirring  continually,  and  preventing  the 
formation  of  knots.  Cook  your  paste  till  it  is  thick 
enough  for  the  spoon  to  stand  upright  in  it  The  thicker 
it  is,  the  lighter  it  will  be. 

When  you  have  taken  it  off  the  fire,  beat  up  four  or 
five  eggs,  as  if  for  an  omelette ;  mix  them  little  by  little 
with  the  paste,  and  let  it  get  cold. 

When  you  want  to  make  your  hollow  fritters,  and 
your  boiling  fat  (in  plenty)  is  ready,  take  with  a  spoon 
a  lump  of  the  paste  as  big  as  a  walnut,  and  throw  it  into 
the  fat.  Put  in  as  many  as  there  is  room  to  fry  at  once. 
When  they  are  swollen  and  nicely  browned,  take  them 
out  of  the  fat,  let  them  drain  a  minute  on  a  hot  napkin, 
and  serve  piled  on  the  dish,  dusted  with  sugar.  They 
should  resemble  brown,  opaque  soap-bubbles  in  appear- 
ance. 

All  Fritters  should  be  served  dry  enough  to  eat  with 
the  fingers. 

Rhubarb  affords  the  latest  instance  of  the  intrusion 
and  establishment  of  strange  herbage  in  our  kitchen- 
gardens.  Mr.  Cuthill  records  that  Mr.  Joseph  Myatt,  of 
Deptford,  was  the  first  to  cultivate  rhubarb  on  a  large 
scale.     It  is  now  nearly  sixty  years  since  he  sent  his  two 


SWEETS  Am>  THIBD-COURSE  DISHES.  617 

sons- to  the  Borough  Market  wi&  Jive  bunches — of  which 
they  could  only  sell  three!  The  ixext  time,  thej  took  ten 
bunchy,  all  of  which  were  sold.  Coming  events  cast  their 
shadow  before;  and  from  the  small  but  increased  sale,  Mr. 
Myatt  judged  that  rhubarb  would  become  a  favourite. 
He  therefore  determined  to  increase  its  cultivation,  and 
year  after  year  added  to  his  stocL  For  his  first  dozen 
roots  he  was  indebted  to  his  fi'iend  Mr.  Oldacre,  gardener 
to  Sir  Joseph  Banks.  They  consisted  of  a  kind  imported 
from  Bussia,  finer  and  much  earUer  than  the  puny 
variety  cultivated  by  the  Brentwood  growers  for  Covent 
Garden.  Mr.  Myatt  had  to  contend  against  many  pre- 
judices ;  but  time,  that  universal  leveller,  overcame  and 
broke  down  every  barrier,  and  rhubarb  is  no  longer 
called  physic. 

Indeed,  the  foot-stalks  of  the  physic-plant  are  now 
regarded  as  a  necessary,  rather  than  a  luxury,  in  culinary 
management.  In  the  English  dietary,  they  produce  the 
same  good  efiPects  as  sorrel  (their  near  relative)  does  in 
that  of  the  French.  Forced  rhubarb  has  much  less 
flavour  than  that  grown  in  the  usual  way.  In  preparing 
it  for 

Rhvbarb  Tart^  it  is  not  necessary  to  remove  the  out- 
side portion  of  the  stalk.  The  best  way  is  simply  to  wash 
and  wipe  it,  and  then  cut  it  into  pieces  at  least  an  inch 
long.  By  no  means  peel  ofi^  the  outer  skin,  by  doing 
which  you  deprive  it  of  the  beautiful  scarlet  tinge  which 
growers  take  so  much  pains  to  obtain.  Invert  a  cup 
filled  with  water  in  the  pie-dish,  to  help  to  increase  and 
retain  the  juice.     Half  fill  the  dish  with  the  cut  rhu- 


618  8WSETS  AND  THIRD-COURSX  DISHES. 

barb ;  sweeten  with  powder  sugar :  put  in  the  rest,  and 
sweeten  again  before  putting  on  the  crust. 

N.B.  The  addition  of  a  couple  of  table-spoonfiils  of 
strawberry  jam  will  impart  to  your  rhubarb  tart  a  pine- 
apple flavour. 

Khubarb  is  equally  good  in  open  as  in  covered  tarts. 

The  flavour  of  Apple  Pie  is  heightened  and  improved 
by  a  few  cloves,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  two  or 
three  dessert-spoonfuls  of  quince  marmalade. 

Marbled  Jelly.  This  pretty  dish  resembles  both  in 
appearance  and  in  the  process  of  making  it  the  very 
ornamental  marble  known  as  breccia;  it  consists  of  various 
fragments  united  by  a  cement  of  a  different  colour.  It 
may  be  either  made  with  the  remains  left  after  a  supper- 
party,  or  various  kinds  of  jelly  and  blancmange,  or  firm 
creams  may  be  made  on  purpose,  which  may  be  coloured 
yellow  with  safiron,  turmeric,  or  egg-yolk,  green  wil^ 
spinach-juice,  pink  with  cochineal  or  beetroot-juice,  and 
white  with  milk  or  cream.  Blancmange  has  a  very  good 
effect  for  the  veining,  but  any  other  jelly  will  do. 

At  the  bottom  of  your  mould  lay  bits  of  various 
jellies  broken  up  into  pieces  not  too  small.  Over  these^ 
pour  the  jelly  for  the  veins  of  the  marble,  only  just  liquid. 
K  too  warm,  it  will  melt  the  pieces  and  cause  the  jelly 
to  become  cloudy.  It  is  better  not  to  put  too  many 
pieces  in  at  once,  otherwise  (unless  very  stiff  indeed) 
they  will  fall  together  by  their  own  weight,  and  prevent 
the  liquid  jelly  from  filtering  in  between  them.  Cool 
the  jelly  as  rapidly  as  you  can,  and  then  add  more 
broken-up  jelly  and  bind  it  together  as  before,  until  your 


SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COUBSE  DISHES.  61^ 

mould  is  quite  full.  These  harlequin  or  mosaic  jelliea 
admit  of  great  variety  in  their  composition :  for  instance, 
the  different  jellies,  without  heing  broken  up,  can  be 
made  to  lie  one  above  the  other  in  regular  strata ;  each 
jelly  can  have  a  different  flavour;  and  the  mixture  of 
opaque  with  transparent  jellies  produces  a  veiy  pleasing 
effect 

A  pretty  contrast  is  obtained  by  cooling  jelly  in  a 
cylindrical  mould  (oval  or  circular),  so  as  to  leave  a  hoi-- 
low  in  the  middle,  to  be  filled  up  with  whipped  cream. 

Orange  Jelly.  Grate  the  rinds  of  two  Seville  oranges, 
two  St.  MichaePs  ditto,  and  two  lemons.  Take  the  juice 
of  three  of  each ;  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  half  a 
pint  of  water,  and  boil  all  together  till  it  almost  candies* 

Have  ready  a  quart  of  jelly,  made  with  water  and  a 
couple  of  ounces  of  isinglass.  Add  this  to  the  orange 
syrup  ;  let  it  just  boil  up  once,  and  then  strain  it  Let 
it  stand  a  while  to  settle,  and  then  pour  it  into  your 
moulds. 

Currant  Jelly^  A.  Weigh  your  currants,  in  order 
that  you  may  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  for  every  pound  of  fruit. 

Strip  the  currants  from  their  stalks;  boil  them  a 
quarter  of  an  hour ;  strain  off  all  their  juice  through  a 
cullender,  without  squeezing  the  fruit.  Then  return  the 
juice  to  the  stew-pan ;  add  the  sugar,  boil  up,  and  skim. 
When  clear,  put  your  jelly  into  the  glasses. 

Some  boil  the  sugar  %mth  the  fruit ;  which  occasions' 
a  loss,  as  the  skins  and  pips  of  the  currants  retain  a  good 
deal  of  the  sugar  adhering  to  them. 


^20  8^V££TS  AND  THIRD-COUBSE  DISHES. 

Currant  Jelly ^  B.  Pick  your  fruit  into  a  stone  jar. 
Set  the  jar  on  the  fire  in  a  boiler  of  hot  water.  Let  it 
boil  until  the  fruit  is  cooked  and  the  juice  drawn.  Strain 
the  juice  through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  stew-pan.  Set  the 
stew-pan  on  the  fire,  and  skim  till  the  juice  is  quite  clear. 
While  it  is  boiling,  prepare  your  sugar  (in  the  proportion 
of  three-quarters  of  a  pound  to  every  pint  of  juice),  by 
pounding  it  rather  fine  and  heating  it  before  the  fire  or 
in  the  oven.  After  the  juice  has  boiled  clear,  take  it  ofiT 
the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  sugar  until  dissolved,  when  yon 
may  pour  the  syrup  into  your  pots  and  glasses. 

Currant  Jelly^  C. — Another  way.  Strip  your  cur- 
rants into  a  stew-pan ;  let  them  boil  until  well  cooked. 
Pour  them  into  a  jelly-bag,  and  let  them  strain,  taking 
care  not  to  squeeze  them.  Return  the  juice  to  the  stew- 
pan,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  put  half  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Let  it  simmer  gently,  and  skim.  When  it  forms  a  jelly 
on  the  spoon,  it  is  enough  done,  and  you  may  put  it  in 
your  pots.  So  managed,  it  will  be  beautifully  dear. 
Next  day,  put  brandied  paper  on  the  surface  of  the  jelly, 
and  tie  down  close  either  with  paper  or  with  wetted 
bladder. 

Orange  Marmalade.  Boil  the  rinds  of  six  oranges 
until  quite  tender.  Then  pound  half  of  them  to  a  pulp, 
and  cut  the  other  half  into  strips  or  shreds. 

Dissolve  a  poimd  and  a  half  of  loaf-sugar  in  a  little 
of  the  water  the  orange-peels  were  boiled  in.  Carefully 
remove  the  white  skin  from  the  flesh  of  the  oranges ;  cut 
it  in  slices ;  and  then  boil  all  together — orange-peel,  peel- 
water  and  sugar,  and  orange-flesh — for  half  an  hour. 


SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES.  621 

Orange  Marmalade  can  now  be  bought  bo  good  and 
cheap,  that  it  is  not  worth  the  trouble  of  making  it  at 
home,  except  in  very  retired  or  distant  localities. 

Compote  of  Pears,  Peel  the  pears,  cover  them  with 
water  in  a  stew-pan,  and  boil  them  for  five  hours,  allow- 
ing a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  broken  loaf-sugar  for  every 
pound  of  fruit  Then  put  the  pears  in  your  dish  .or  jar. 
Beduce  the  juice  by  boiling ;  add  to  it  either  a  little  rum, 
or  kirsch-wasser,  or  lemon-juice,  and  then  pour  it  over 
them. 

Rke  Jelly.  Wash  a  pound  of  rice  in  several  cold 
waters,  and  in  two  boiling  waters.  Put  six  quarts  of 
water  into  a  large  stew-pan ;  add  the  rice,  and  set  it  on 
the  fire  to  boil  for  an  hour  exactly.  Then  strain  the 
whole  through  a  sieve  or  coarse  muslin. 

Note.  The  perfection  of  the  jelly  depends  on  the 
promptitude  with  which  it  is  strained. 

Set  it  immediately  again  on  the  fire,  with  a  pound  of 
loaf-sugar  broken  small,  the  minced  peel  of  a  lemon,  and 
its  juice  strained  from  pips  and  pulp.  When  the  sugar 
is  melted,  throw  in  a  glass  of  kirsch-wasser,  and  take 
the  stew-pan  ofi^the  fire,  on  which  it  must  not  be  allowed 
to  remain  after  receiving  the  kirsch. 

Smear  the  inside  of  a  mould  with  oil  of  almonds,  or 
very  fine  olive-oil.  Pour  in  your  jelly,  and  let  it  stand 
all  night  to  cool  and  stiflen.  On  serving,  surround  the  jelly 
with  raspberry  syrup,  or  preserved  cherries,  or  any  other 
fruit  jelly  or  jam.   Apple  marmalade  also  goes  well  with  it. 

This  makes  an  inexpensive  dish,  which  is  both  pre- 
sentable and  serviceable. 


4)22  SWEETS  A27D  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES. 

Lemon  Jelly.  Dissolve  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a 
pint  of  water.  Add  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  and  the  joioe 
and  rinds  of  a  couple  of  lemons.  Boil  ten  minutes,  and 
strain  it  into  your  mould  prepared  as  before. 

Ovocolate  Creamy  to  be  eaten  with  cake.  Mix  together, 
without  boiling,  three  ounces  of  scraped  chocolate,  six 
•eggs,  and  a  pint  of  milk  sweetened  to  taste.  Stir  it 
over  a  gentle  fire  until  it  is  of  a  smooth  and  creamy 
-consistency. 

Toast  slices  of  any  light,  common  cake,  lay  them  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  pour  the  hot  Chocolate  Cream  over  them. 

Cherry  (or  other)  Tarty  for  Third  Course  or  Dessert 

Have  one  pound  of  flour  and  one  pound  of  butter; 
take  half  the  butter,  and  work  it  into  the  whole  of  the 
flour  (except  the  little  you  reserve  for  dusting  with). 
'Then  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  just  su£Scient  water  to 
knead  and  form  it  into  a  paste. 

Then  roll  it  out,  and  stick  in  all  over  it  little  bits  of 
butter.  Dust  with  flour;  roll  it  out  again;  fold  it  in 
three ;  and  leave  it  for  half  an  hour  to  rise.  After  that, 
beat  it  with  the  rolling-pin,  and  stick  it  a  second  time 
full  of  little  bits  of  butter.  Dust,  roll,  fold  in  three 
once  more,  and  leave  it  for  another  half-hour. 

Again  beat  it  with  the  rolling-pin,  and  take  a  portion 
of  it  for  the  bottom  of  your  tart  Eoll  it  out,  and  put  it 
at  the  bottom  of  a  tart-pan,  which  should  have  been  pre- 
viously buttered  and  dusted  with  flour. 

Take  a  couple  of  pounds  of  cherries  of  some  acid 
variety  (or  other  stone-fruit, — as  plums,  greengages,  or 
apricots) ;  cut  them  in  halves,  and  remove  the  stalks  and 


SWEETS  AND  THIRD-COURSE  DISHES.  G23 

stones.  Spread  them  all  over  the  tart,  except  round  the 
edge  reserved  for  the  rim ;  dust  them  with  half  a  pound 
of  powder  sugar.  With  the  rest  of  your  paste  form  the 
rim  of  the  tart  (as  lightly  as  possible),  and  the  little 
strips  which  cross  each  other  over  the  fruit.  Finish  off 
by  varnishing  the  whole  of  the  paste  with  a  feather 
dipped  in  yolk  of  egg.  Bake  your  tart  immediately  in 
a  lively  oven. 

Few  young  ladies  will  be  so  dull  as  not  to  be  able  to 
make  a  tart  according  to  these  directions. 

Cream  Tart.  This,  like  the  preceding,  can  be  made 
•of  any  dimensions,  from  the  largest  the  door  of  your 
•oven  will  admit,  down  to  the  tartlet  to  place  on  a  lady's 
plate.  Phenomenal  cart-wheel  tarts  are  sometimes  made, 
half  cream,  half  fruit  jam,  giving  them  the  appearance 
•of  being  modelled  after  the  full  moon  half-eclipsed.  Or 
the  cream  and  the  jam  are  deposited  in  alternate  rays, 
which  confers  on  the  tart  a  more  symmetrical  look. 

The  crust  and  fabrication  of  the  tart  are  exactly  as 
•described  above ;  only  the  fruit  is  replaced  by  so-called 
cream,  made  thus:  it  should  be  a  little  thicker  than 
good  boiled  custard.  Take  a  quart  of  milk ;  if  to  be 
flavoured  with  vanilla,  boil  it  in  the  milk.  Stir  in 
gradually,  over  the  fire,  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  finest  flour;  sweeten  to  taste;  remove  it  from  the 
fire ;  flavour,  if  not  with  vanilla,  with  orange-flower  or' 
rose-water,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  half  a  dozen  eggs 
beat  up.  When  smooth  and  free  from  lumps,  your 
•cream  is  made.  Pour  it  into  your  tart  or  tartlets,  and 
bake  them. 


624  SWEETS  AKD  THZBD-OOUBSB  DISHES. 

Cream  for  tarts  is  often  nothing  more  tlian  milk 
thickened  with  arrowroot,  and  flayouied  with  vanilla  or 
orange-floweis.  Cinnamon  or  nutmeg  are  admissible 
additions. 

Preserved  Cucumbers  (Sweet).  Take  large  cncambers, 
that  will  quarter  like  citronS|  and  smaller  ones,  to  be  left 
whole.  Pat  them  into  a  wide-monthed  pot ;  ponr  over 
them  a  strong  brine ;  laj  a  cabbage-leaf  on  the  top,  to 
keep  them  do¥m ;  tie  a  paper  oyer  the  top  of  the  pot,  and 
set  it  in  the  chimnejr-eomer  until  the  cucumbers  turn 
yellow.  Then  set  them  over  the  fire  in  fresh  salt-and* 
water,  closely  covered  with  a  fresh  cabbage-leaf  over 
them.  Let  them  heat  gently,  to  green  ihem ;  but  they 
must  not  boU. 

When  they  are  of  a  good  colour,  take  them  off  the 
fire ;  let  them  stand  in  the  liquor  till  cool ;  then  put  them 
into  cold  water,  changing  it  several  times  to  take  out 
the  salt,  previously  quartering  the  large  cucumbers  and 
taking  out  their  seeds. 

Make  enough  syrup  to  cover  your  fruit  by  putting 
a  pound  of  sugar  and  an  ounce  of  scraped  ginger  to 
every  pint  of  water,  with  some  veiy  nice  lemon-peel. 
Boil  it  to  the  proper  thickness,  and  let  it  cooL  Drain 
the  cucumbers,  put  them  into  a  jar,  and  pour  the  cool 
syrap  over  them.  They  require  looking  to  a  few  days 
afterwards.  If  necessary,  boil  up  the  syrup  again,  and 
return  it  to  them  after  cooling. 

Greengages^  Preserved  in  Syrup.  Make  a  syrap 
with  a  pound  of  lump-sugar  and  half  a  pint  of  water. 
While  boiling  up,  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises.     When 


SWEETS  AJH)  THIBD-COUBSE  DISHES.  625 

dear,  put  in  as  mach  firait  as  can  be  well  covered  with 
the  sjrap;  let  them  simmer  slowly  for  five  minutes; 
set  them  aside  to  cool;  then  put  them  into  your  pre- 
serve-glasseS)  covering  the  surface  with  brandied  paper, 
and  tying  paper  over  that. 

Apricots  (halved)  may  be  Preserved  in  the  same  way. 
Crack  the  stones ;  blanch  the  kernels  in  boiling  water ; 
and  put  them,  with  the  apricots,  into  the  syrup. 

Cabinet  PtuMtng.  This  Pudding  is  despised  by  some 
persons  for  the  very  reason  which  constitutes  one  of  its 
merits  in  the  judgment  of  others ;  namely,  that  it  may 
be,  and  often  is,  made  with  stale  sponge  biscuits  and  the 
remains  of  cake.  It  is  nevertheless  a  very  elegant, 
light,  and  agreeable  dish,  and  much  of  it  is  seldom 
allowed  to  leave  the  table. 

Spot  the  inside  of  a  buttered  mould  (not  too  thickly) 
with  dried  cherries,  or,  in  default  of  them,  with  the  best 
raisins  split  in  halves.  At  the  bottom  put  a  few  maca- 
roons and  ratafia  drops,  and  over  them  slices  of  sponge 
cake.  Line  the  sides  of  the  mould  either  with  sponge 
cake  in  slices  or  with  sugar  biscuits.  Half-fill  the  inside 
with  bits  of  cake,  intermixed  or  not  with  small  pieces  of 
any  candied  fruit  you  ham 

Make  as  much  custard  as  will  fill  the  mould  with 
eggs  and  milk  (the  eggs  predominating  in  quantify), 
flavoured  with  sugar  and  a  glass  of  cognac,  or  of  some 
liqueur,  as  noyau  or  cura9oa.  Pour  some  of  this  over 
the  cake  in  your  mould ;  fill  up  with  more  cake,  and 
then  pour  in  the  rest  of  your  custard.  When  it  is  well 
soaked  in,  cover  the  top  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper, 

ss 


626  BWSETS  AND  THIRD-GOUBSE  DISHES. 

tie  a  floored  doth  tightly  over  that,  put  it  in  boiling' 
water^  and  let  it  boil  galloping  three-qoarters  of  aa 
boor  or  an  boor,  according  to  size.  A  few  minutes  too 
long  IB  better  tban  a  few  minutes  too  little,  in  order  to 
bave  tbe  pudding  quite  firm. 

Wben  done,  torn  it  out  of  tbe  mould,  and  serve  it 
with  sweet  sauce  poured  round  it,  made  in  tbe  same 
way  as  for  plum  pudding,  only  flavoured  witb  tbe  same 
spirit  or  liqueur  as  was  used  for  tbe  custard  tbat  belped 
to  set  tbe  pudding. 

Bread-^nd'Butter  Pudding.  Soon  done,  as  an  im* 
promptu  addition  to  a  dinner,  and  almost  universally 
liked. 

Take  an  open  pie-disb  of  tbe  size  required ;  butter 
its  inside. 

Cut  slices  of  veiy  tbin  bread-and-butter,  and  do  not 
be  afraid  of  tbe  butter.  Cover  tbe  bottom  of  tbe  dish 
witb  these  slices,  and  sprinkle  them  witb  a  few  well-^ 
washed  currants ;  it  is  quite  a  mistake  to  put  too  manjr 
currants ;  it  is  an  improvement  to  mix  witb  them  just  a 
few  good  raisiQs  halved  and  stoned.  Then  put  another 
layer  of  bread-and-butter,  again  sprinkling  witb  currants  ; 
and  so  on,  till  the  dish  is  little  more  than  half-full, 
allowing  room  for  the  swelling  of  the  bread.  Do  not 
sprinkle  currants  over  the  top  layer  of  bread-and-butter, 
as  they  are  apt  to  be  dried  up  and  uneatable;  that,, 
however,  is  a  matter  of  taste  and  judgment 

Beat  up  (not  to  a  froth)  three  or  four  eggs,  according- 
to  tbe  size  of  your  pudding ;  add  to  them  an  equal  quantity 
of  milk;  sweeten  liberaDy,  and  flavour  with  rose  or 


SWEETS  AND  THmD-OOXTBSE  DISHES.  627 

orange-flower  water ;  pour  this  over  jour  slices  of  bread- 
and-butter  ;  let  the  pudding  stand  a  while  to  soak ;  grate 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  sprinkle  a  few  split  raisins  over  the 
top.  Bake  in  not  too  fierce  an  oven.  When  the  surface 
is  crisp  and  light  brown,  the  pudding  is  enough. 

Baked  Fruit-Batter  Puddinff,  Take  a  shallow  pie- 
dish  ;  butter  the  inside. 

Make  batter  enough  to  fill  it  three-quarters  full,  in 
the  following  proportions  :  to  each  half-pint  of  milk,  put 
one  table-spoonful  of  flour,  one  egg,  a  salt-spoonful  of 
salt,  a  teaspoonfiil  of  pounded  sugar,  and  one  egg  over 
for  the  dish.  *  When  this  batter  is  worked  smooth,  pour 
it  into  jour  disk  On  it  drop  enough  fruit  to  cover  its 
surface,  plunging  it  into  the  batter,  although  you  allow 
it  to  float  afterwards.  Scatter  also  a  few  lumps  of 
butter  over  the  surface.  The  batter  should  not  be  too 
deep  in  proportion  to  the  quantity  of  fruit ;  which  may 
be  apples,  halved  or  quartered  and  cored;  apricots, 
halved  and  with  their  blanched  kernels  added  to  them ; 
Orleans  and  other  plums,  damsons,  cherries,  &c.,  whole. 
Bake  briskly ;  send  to  table  very  hot ;  and,  as  soon  as 
taken  out  of  the  oven,  dust  with  a  liberal  sprinkling  of 
sifted  sugar. 

Baked  Batter  Pudding^  Savoury ^  with  Meat.  Make 
the  batter  as  before,  only  omitting  the  sugar.  When 
it  is  poured  into  the  buttered  dish,  drop  into  it  a  few 

» 

fresh  sausages,  or  thin  slices  of  delicate  unsmoked 
bacon,  or  three  or  four  cutlets  of  veal,  pork,  mutton, 
or  lamb.  Bake  briskly,  and  serve  instantly  it  is  taken 
out  of  the  oven.     This  and  the  preceding  pudding  can 


628  SWEETS  AND  THIED-COUBSE  DISHES. 

be  baked  in  an  American  oven  before  the  fire.  If  any 
is  left  cold,  it  can  be  sliced  and  firied  or  ov^ied  before 
the  fire. 

Toad  in  a  Hole.  Make  batter  as  before.  Have  a 
deep  baking-dish,  battered  inside.  In  it  lay  a  solid 
lump  of  meat  (usuallj  beef,  but  any  batchers'  meat 
will  do),  with  a  fair  proportion  of  bone  and  fiit.  Over 
this  pour  your  batter,  till  the  dish  is  as  full  as  it  will 
hold  without  spilling  or  boiling  over.  Bake  till  the 
meat  is  thoroughly  done.  Send  up  the  toad  to  table 
still  lying  in  its  hole,  but  have  a  hot  dish  ready  to 
receive  it  when  removed  by  the  person  who  carves. 

This  is  an  excellent  way  of  freshening  up  under- 
done remains  of  cold  joints  of  meat  If  a  little  cold 
gravy  be  poured  over  it,  the  pudding  is  just  as  good  as 
if  made  with  firesh  meat. 

Yorhahire  Pudding.  For  the  usual  latch-pan  under 
a  roasting  joint  of  beef,  substitute  a  shallow,  flat,  tin 
dish  with  upright  edges  about  three  inches  high.  Put 
this  under  the  meat  when  about  half-done.  When 
thoroughly  hot,  and  a  little  gravy  has  dropped  into  it^ 
nearly  fill  it  with  batter  made  like  the  preceding,  only 
with  a  smaller  proportion  of  milL  Let  it  roast  under 
the  meat  before  the  fire. 

You  may  turn  the  pudding  when  browned  at  the  top, 
in  order  to  brown  the  under  side ;  or  you  may  let  it 
finish  cooking  as  it  is,  which  is  much  the  safer  plan ; 
for  the  richer  your  pudding  is,  the  more  difficult  it  will 
be  to  turn  it. 

Meat  may  be  baked  over  a  pudding  of  this  kind^ 


SWXETS  AND  THIBD-COXTBSE  DISH£S.  629 

supported  jost  above  it  on  a  little  three-legged  or  four- 
legged  iron-wire  framework  made  for  the  purpose. 
These  unpretending  dishes  are  wholesome,  excellent, 
and  almost  sure  to  please,  if  served  the  moment  thej 
are  ready ;  but  they  become  heavy  and  greasy — spoiled, 
in  short — ^if  kept  back  for  any  length  of  time. 

Frummety^  sometimes  called  Firmity  and  Furmityj 
which  always  makes  us  think  of  the  maid  who  asked 
her  would-be  sweetheart:  "And  pray  what  is  your 
occupy-ation  ?" 

Frumentum  is  Latin  for  wheat ;  and  the  East  Angli- 
ans  say  correctly,  Frammety. 

This  is  usually  made  with  wheat  gleaned  in  the 
harvest-field ;  but  the  truth  is,  that  wheat  is  already  too 
old  for  the  purpose ;  it  will  exercise  the  robustest  jaws 
to  eat  it  Coax  the  farmer  to  let  you  have  a  little  wheat 
three  or  four  days  before  it  is  fit  to  cut  After  thresh- 
ing, winnowing,  and  washing,  boil  it  tender,  if  you  can, 
in  as  little  water  as  will  keep  it  from  burning.  The 
gluten  of  the  wheat  will  form  a  jelly.  When  done, 
take  it  off  the  fire,  stir  in  beat-up  eggs,  milk  or  cream, 
sugar,  and  grated  nutmeg.  You  may  likewise  flavour 
with  vanilla,  rose  or  orange-flower  water.  Serve  either 
warm  in  a  deep  dish,  or  cold  in  custard- cups  or  glasses. 

Wilder  Cream.  Grind  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  well- 
roasted  coffee ;  pour  over  it  ten  table-spoonfuls  of  fresh 
milk  at  the  boiling  point.  When  the  milk  has  passed 
through  the  coffee  in  the  strainer,  sweeten  it  highly. 

Make  a  custard  with  six  egg-yolks,  a  glass  of  milk, 
and  sugar.     When  it  is  made,  and  while  still  hot,  stir 


630  SWEETS  AND  THIBD-GOUBSE  DISHES. 

into  it  (over  ihe  fire,  but  without  ever  allowing  it  to 
boil)  the  milk  which  has  passed  through  the  coffee. 

Dissolve  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  in  a  small 
quantity  of  boiling  water ;  strain  it  through  muslin,  and 
add  it  to  the  custard  just  before  you  take  it  off  the  fire. 
Meanwhile,  whip  up  a  pint  of  jGresh  cream ;  when  it  is 
sufficiently  compact,  incorporate  with  it  the  coffee- 
custard,  continuing  to  whip  all  the  while.  Pour  the 
whole  into  a  mould,  which  you  will  set  into  ice  an  hour 
and  a  half  before  serving.  Do  not  turn  it  out  until  you 
require  it. 

This  cream  can  be  flavoured  with  either  vanilla, 
maraschino,  chocolate,  cura9oa,  or  noyau,  instead  of 
coffee.  If  no  ice  is  at  hand,  put  the  mould  into  the 
cellar,  or  set  it  in  a  dish  of  cold  water,  changing  it  for 
fresh-pumped  firom  time  to  time.  In  that  case,  it  will 
be  expedient  to  make  the  cream  early  in  the  morning 
(or  even  over-night),  and  to  add  at  the  same  time  with 
the  isinglass  a  couple  of  egg-whites  beaten  to  firoth  or 
snow. 

Colonial  Cream — of  Coffee,  Chocolate,  Yanilla,  and 
Caramel.  Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  high-coloured, 
fresh-ground  coffee  in  a  quart  of  milk,  aromatised  with 
vanilla,  together  with  two  dessert-spoonfiils  of  not  too 
bro^n  caramel.  Take  it  off  the  fire,  strain  it,  and  stir 
in  six  egg-yolks. 

Boil  a  tumbler  of  water,  and  into  it  throw  as  much 
pulverised  chocolate  as  would  make  three  cups.  Keep 
stirring  until  it  is  melted  and  smooth;  a  very  short 
boiling  up  suffices.     Take  it  off  the  fire,  combine  it  with 


SWEETS  AND  THIBD-COURSE  DISHES.  631 

the  cream  already  prepared,  and  finish  it  off  in  the  hot- 
water  batL 

This  cream  is  served  in  cups  or  glasses.  It  may  be 
simplified  by  omitting  either  the  coffee  or  the  chocolate. 
It  may  also  be  put  into  a  mould  and  iced. 

Many  housekeepers  avoid  attempting  dishes  prepared 
in  moulds,  because  they  exaggerate  the  difficuliy  of 
making  them,  and  especially  of  turning  them  out  of 
the  mould.  But  nothing  is  easier.  Jellies  and  the  like, 
served  in  flat  dishes  or  glasses,  are  considered  quite  the 
infancy  of  the  art,  to  be  handed  over  to  third-class 
tables.  When,  without  any  considerable  increase  of 
•expense,  it  is  possible  to  increase  the  elegance  of  a 
table,  it  would  be  inexcusable  to  neglect  the  advantage 
for  the  sake  of  avoiding  a  little  trouble. 
^  The  best  moulds  are  those  made  of  tinned  iron ;  not 
•only  are  they  less  expensive  than  copper  moulds,  but 
there  is  no  danger  of  poisonous  results  from  pouring  in 
hot  ingredients  to  be  left  there  to  cool  for  a  certain  length 
of  time. 

The  turning  out  is  readily  effected  by  twisting  round 
the  mould  for  a  few  seconds  a  towel  dipped  in  boiling 
water.  The  contents  should  not  be  shaken  to  separate 
them  firom  the  mould,  as  is  generally  done  with  cakes 
and  pastry.  Place  the  dish  upon  the  mould,  and  reverse 
them,  keeping  the  two  in  close  contact;  then  lift  the 
mould,  leaving  what  it  contained  in  its  place  on  the 
'dish. 


632  BEVERAGES. 


XIX. 

BEVERAGES. 

The  portion  of  our  aliment  T^hich  most  requires  Eveij 
Man  to  be  his  own  Physician,  is  probably  that  which  we 
take  in  a  liquid  form;  namely,  what  we  drink.  In 
eating  (except  in  the  case  of  excessively  brutal  or  dis- 
eased appetite),  there  arrives  a  moment  when  nature 
says  unmistakably,  ^^  Enough  I  It  is  now  time  to  say 
Grace  after  Meals.  Let  us  thank  a  Bountifiil  Provi- 
dence for  what  we  have  received  !'* 

Not  so  with  beverages.  There  is  no  beverage,  not  even 
water,  which  we  may  not  contract  the  habit  of  sipping  in 
quantities  greater  than  the  bodily  frame  requires.  There 
may  be  intemperance  with  diluents  as  well  as  with  stimu- 
lants, bringing  on  dropsy  instead  of  delirium  tremens. 

The  good  effects  of  fermented  drinks  in  moderation 
are  incontestable.  We  are  induced  to  take  them  by  a 
sort  of  instinct.  It  onffht  to  be  as  easy  for  a  man  to 
know  when  he  has  had  enough  beer  or  wine,  as  to  know 
when  he  has  had  enough  solid  food ;  such,  however,  is 
not  universally  the  case.  A  perfectiy  healthy  stomach, 
governed  by  a  perfectiy  self-controlling  mind,  will  mea- 
sure the  limit  with  decisive  pnidence;  nevertheless, 
wine,  from  the  earliest  antiquity,  has  lured  its  lovers 
into  occasional  excess.      Such   excess  should  not  be 


BEVERAGES.  633 

blamed  with  ultra-severitj,  when  it  is  only  occasional. 
Accidents  will  happen.  Deep  sorrow  is  dry.  Fatigae 
cannot  always  exactly  estimate  how  little  it  needs  to  re- 
store its  strength.  There  are  times  and  seasons  when  fer- 
mented liquor  lays  hold  of  us  sooner  than  it  does  at  others. 
Some  particular  taps  or  bins  have  a  peculiar  quality  of 
getting  home  speedily.  Any  of  these  causes  may  take  a 
man  by  surprise,  make  him  go  further  than  he  intended, 
and  astonish  him  when  he  finds  how  far  he  has  gone. 

Wine  was  drunk  for  ages  after  ages  without  the 
drinkers  once  suspecting  that  it  was  possible  to  extract 
the  spiritaouB  portion  which  gives  it  its  strength;  but 
the  Arabs  having  taught  us  the  art  of  distillation  (which 
they  invented  to  obtain  the  perfume  of  flowers,  of  the 
rose  especially),  it  was  thought  possible  to  discover  the ' 
special  element  which  gives  to  wine  its  peculiar  flavour, 
and  enables  it  to  produce  such  singular  eflects.  After 
successive  experiments,  there  came  forth,  at  last,  alcohol, 
spirit  of  wine,  brandy  (the  king  of  strong  drinks),  ex- 
citing the  sense  of  taste  to  its  highest  pitch. 

The  difierent  combinations  of  alcohol  have  opened,  in 
liqueurs,  a  new  source  of  pleasure,  and,  in  elixirs,  have  en- 
dowed drugs  with  an  energy  and  concentration  unknown 
before  their  union  with  this  agent.  They  have  supplied 
settlers  in  savage  countries  with  a  formidable  weapon ; 
for  the  natives  of  Australia  and  the  New  World  have  been 
destroyed  at  least  as  much  by  fire-water  as  by  fire-arms. 

Spirits  nevertheless  render  invaluable  service  in  cases 
of  extreme  urgency,  such  as  excessive  loss  of  blood, 
extreme  fatigue,  or  sudden  and  overwhelming  mental 


4)34  BEYERAOES. 

•emotion.  In  these  cases,  ihejr  must  be  administered  by 
<X)mpetent  bystanders;  no  person  should  ventore  to 
prescribe  them  to  himself.  But  the  main  value  of 
strong  drinks,  as  remedial  potions,  lies  in  the  prompt'^ 
ness  of  their  effects.  They  are  absorbed  into  the  system 
with  extreme  &cility;  they  go  to  work  witboat  tibe 
least  delay ;  and  the  relief  they  afford  is  all  bnt  instan- 
taneous. Supply  a  man,  worn  oat  with  &tigue,  with 
food  of  a  substantial  nature ;  he  will  scarcely  be  able  to 
«at  it,  and,  for  a  while,  will  feel  little  the  better  for  it 
Give  him  a  glass  of  wine  or  a  thimbleful  of  brandy, 
imd  in  a  couple  of  minutes  he  will  be  a  different  man. 

In  cases  of  great  weariness,  a  capital  restorative  is  a 
plateful  of  good,  hot  soup,  with  either  a  glass  of  wine  or 
a  table-spoonful  of  brandy  stirred  into  it 

Natural  thirst  is  merely  the  instinct  which  urges  us 
to  maintain  the  equilibrium  between  the  transpiration 
from  our  bodies  (sensible  or  insensible)  and  the  fluid 
needed  to  supply  the  loss.  It  is  clear  that  this  will  be 
greatly  modified  by  the  degree  of  dryness  of  the  atmo- 
sphere, the  temperature  of  the  season,  the  exercise  taken, 
and  the  labour  performed;  No  rule  can  be  laid  down, 
no  allowance  meted  out,  imder  conditions  so  changeable 
in  their  nature.  Healthy  feelings  and  common  sense 
can  alone  bo  relied  upon  as  competent  guides.  Artificial 
or  adventitious  thirst  (which  is  peculiar  to  the  human 
race)  is  the  craving  which  drives  us  to  seek  in  drink  a 
strength  which  is  not  naturally  our  own.  The  gratifi- 
cation of  this  kind  of  thirst  is  a  factitious  indulgence, 
rather  than  a  natural  want ;  for  it  is  really  inextinguiah- 


BEVERAGES.  635 

able.  The  liquids  taken  to  assuage  it,  only  excite  the 
craving,  by  adding  fuel  to  fire.  This  thirst,  become 
habitual  (its  certain  destiny),  is  the  generator  of  all  the 
drunkards  in  the  world.  They  cease  to  drink,  either 
when  there  is  no  more  liquor,  or  when  the  liquor 
drunk  has  made  ihem  incapable  of  drinking  more. 

This  thirst  goes  on,  and  on,  increasing ;  it  becomes 
80  intense  and  habitual,  that  the  sufFerer  cannot  pass  the 
night  without  drinking,  but  must  rise  from  his  bed,  a 
slave  to  the  dram ;  until,  at  last,  it  reaches  its  climax, 
which  climax  is  no  other  than — Death. 

"  I  have  attentively  observed  the  workmen  who  come 
to  us,"  said  a  Dantzic  spirit-shopkeeper  to  BriUat 
Savarin ;  "  and  when  they  once  give  way  to  a  passion 
for  strong  drink,  they  all  reach  their  end  in  exactly  the 
same  way. 

^^  At  first,  they  only  take  their  dram  in  the  morning ; 
and  this  quantity  suffices  during  several  years.  More- 
over, the  habit  is  common  to  all  our  work-people;  a 
man  who  did 'not  take  his  morning  dram  would  be 
shunned  by  his  fellows.  Then,  they  double  the  dose; 
that  is,  they  take  a  dram  in  the  morning  and  another  at 
noon.  They  continue  this  allowance  for  two  or  three 
years.  Then  they  take  it  morning,  noon,  and  night. 
Soon,  they  must  have  their  dram  at  every  hour  of  the 
day,  and  they  refuse  all  spirit  not  seasoned  with  spice. 
When  they  are  come  to  that,  they  have  not  more  than 
six  months  to  live,  at  the  very  outside.  They  dry  up  to 
skeletons;  fever  seizes  them;  they  are  taken  to  the 
hospital ;  and  are  seen  no  more." 


636  BKVEBAGES. 

After  a  long  walk,  fatigue,  or  strong  exercise,  or 
any  other  exciting  cause  of  thirst,  whatever  the  heverage 
with  which  you  quench  it,  first  rinse  the  mouth,  either 
with  water  or  the  beverage  itself. 

That  pure  (or  rather  unmixed)  water  is  in  sucli  cases 
an  unwholesome  drink,  is  a  popular  beUef,  confirmed  bj 
many  striking  instances.  Wliy  it  should  be  so,  is  rather 
mysterious ;  u  e.  the  cause  is  not  kno^vn  with  certainty. 
That  it  contains  the  germs  of  intestinal  parasites  may  be 
true  in  many  cases,  but  far  from  in  all. 

To  Cool  Drinksy  in  SuUry  Weather,  Wine  or  other 
beverages  may  be  agreeably  cooled  in  summer  by  first 
pumping  five  or  six  pails  of  water  out  of  a  deep  welL 
Make  use  of  the  seventh  or  eighth  pailful  to  plunge  in  it 
the  bottle  containing  the  drink  to  be  cooled,  half  an  hour 
before  it  is  required. 

When  that  resource  is  not  at  hand,  wrap  the  bottle  in 
coarse  rag  or  matting,  dip  it  in  the  coolest  water  you 
have,  and  hang  it  in  a  current  of  air.  If  you  hare  no 
draught  or  current,  hang  it  in  the  shade  at  the  end 
of  a  long  string,  and  make  it  swing  backwards  and 
forwards.  The  more  rapidly  the  evaporation  of  the 
moisture  in  the  rag  takes  place,  the  more  efiectual  will 
be  the  cooling. 

Intense  cold  may  be  obtained  by  mixing  together  salt 
and  pounded  ice  or  snow.  A  moderate  degree  of  cold  is 
produced  by  the  dissolution  of  common  salt  in  water; 
still  stronger  cold  is  to  be  had  by  dissolving  powdered 
nitre  in  water.  In  both  these  cases,  the  cold  is  the 
result  of  the  change  in  the  state  of  aggregation  of  the 


BEVERAGES.  637 

atoms  composing  the  salt  and  the  water,  or  the  nitre  and 
the  water,  consequent  upon  their  admixture.* 

In  Bengal,  where  ice  is  never  formed  naturally,  it  is 
artificiallj  produced  bj  the  following  means.  Shallow 
pits  are  dug,  which  are  partially  filled  with  straw ;  and 
on  the  straw,  flat  pans  containing  water  are  exposed  by 
night  to  the  dear  firmament  The  water  is  a  powerful 
radiant,  and  sends  off  its  heat  copiously  into  space.  The 
heat  thus  lost  cannot  be  supplied  firom  the  earth — ^this 
source  being  cut  off  by  the  non-conducting  straw. 
Before  sunrise,  a  cake  of  ice  is  formed  in  each  vessel. 

It  appears  that  the  condition  most  suitable  for  the 
formation  of  ice  in  this  way  is  not  only  a  clear  air,  but 
a  dry  air.  The  nights,  says  Sir  Robert  Barker,  most 
favom*able  for  the  production  of  ice,  are  those  which  are 
clearest  and  most  serene,  and  tn  xxihich  very  little  dew 
appears  after  midnight.  To  produce  the  ice  in  abundance, 
the  atmosphere  must  not  only  be  clear,  but  it  must  be  com- 
paratively free  from  aqueous  vapour.  When  the  straw  in 
which  the  pans  are  laid  becomes  wet,  it  must  be  changed 
for  dry  straw ;  the  reason,  according  to  Professor  Tyn- 
dall,  being,  that  the  vapour  rising  from  the  wet  straw, 
and  overspreading  the  pans  like  a  screen,  would  check 
the  chill  and  retard  the  congelation. 


1.  DILUENTS  AND  STIMULANTS. 

Toast-and-Water.   Have  ready  the  jug  (with  a  cover 

*  See  Tyndall's  admirable  work.  Heat  considered  as  a  Mode  of 
Motion, 


638  BEVERAGES. 

to  it)  in  which  your  toast-and-water  is  to  be  made,  and 
another  jog  of  somewhat  larger  dimensions.  Boil  the 
water  in  a  kettle,  and  pour  it  into  the  larger  jng.  While 
it  is  standing  a  minute  or  two  to  settle,  toast  a  diy  crust 
of  bread,  and  allow  some  portion  of  it  to  catch  fire  and 
blaze.  Blow  out  the  flame  immediately ;  put  the  charred 
bread  into  the  smaller  jug,  and  over  it  pour  the  hot 
water  from  the  other  jug.  Put  on  the  lid,  and  let  it 
stand  to  cool.  The  bread  may  be  left  in  it  as  long  as 
any  fit  for  use  remains.  If  wanted  in  a  hurry,  the 
cooling  may  be  hastened  by  plunging  the  jug  in  a  pan  of 
cold  spring  water. 

J£  the  toast-and-water  is  required  to  appear  in  de- 
canters, as  ^^  President's  Sherry,"  it  should  be  poured  away 
from  the  bread  as  soon  as  it  has  taken  sufficient  colour. 

Some  tell  you  not  to  let  the  bread  catch  fire,*  but  it. 
is  well-known  that  an  excellent  plan  of  purifying  water 

*  ^  Toast  bread  slowly,  without  burning.  The  usual  method  of 
burning  bread  for  toast-water  is  as  absurd  as  burning  coffee  to  a  coal, 
instead  of  browning  it  chestnut  colour ;  and  there  is  as  much  difference 
in  the  toast-coffee,  well  prepared  or  not,  as  in  a  good  or  indifferent  cup 
of  coffee.  All  dishes  cooked  for  the  sick  should  be  prepared  as  nicely 
as  possible,  and  served  with  taste." — Mrs.  E.  F.  Haskell. 

''The  idea  that  bread  must  be  burnt  black  to  make  toast-and-water 
is  quite  a  popular  delusion,  for  nothing  nourishing  could  come  from 
it :  if  jour  house  was  burnt  to  ashes,  it  would  be  valueless ;  and  the 
same  with  burnt  bread,  which  merely  makes  the  water  black ;  but  the 
nutriment  of  the  bread,  intended  to  relieve  the  chest,  has  evaporated  in 
smoke  by  being  burnt*' — Alexis  Soyer. 

The  above  opinions  are  founded  on  the  notion  that  invalids  drink 
toast-and-water  for  the  sake  of  the  nutriment  it  contains ;  in  which 
case,  they  had  better  take  ox-tail  soup.  But  when  we  remember  that 
a  mild  diluent  is  what  is  wanted,  the  mode  of  preparing  it  assumes  a 
different  aspect. 


BEYEBAQES*  639* 

is  to  stir  into  it  a  little  pounded  charcoal.  Bread 
charcoal,  for  that  purpose,  is  as  efficient  as  wood  char- 
coal ;  and  an  invalid  will  be  glad  to  have  his  drinking 
water  purified  as  well  as  softened. 

To  avoid  too  high  colouring,  this  drink  may  be  made 
with  a  large  piece  of  toasted  bread  and  a  small  bit  of 
burnt  crust. 

Barley  Water*  Put  a  teacupiul  of  pearl  barley 
into  a  quart  of  very  pure,  cold,  soft  water ;  when  it  boils 
up,  skim  carefully,  and  let  it  continue  boiling  for  at 
least  half  an  hour.  Then  strain  off  the  water  from  the 
barley,  and  let  it  cool. 

Some  sweeten  barley  water,  and  flavour  it  with  the 
peel  or  juice  of  lemon ;  but  it  is  usually  administered 
pure  and  simple. 

The  same  barley  may  be  boiled  again  twice  or  thrice. 

Lemonade.  Peel  a  lemon  very  thinly,  cut  the  flesh 
in  slices,  and  put  the  whole  into  a  jar  with  a  few  lumps 
of  sugar.  Pour  over  them  a  quart  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  stand  covered  until  cold. 

Orangeade  is  made  in  the  same  way,  substituting 
orange  for  lemon.  Very  useful  for  affording  a  variely 
in  the  beverages  of  feverish  patients. 

Syrup^  for  making  Lemonade  immediately.  In  a  pint 
of  water,  boil  a  pound  and  a  half  of  lump-sugar.  Throw 
in  half  an  ounce  of  tartaric  acid ;  when  cold,  flavour 
with  essence  of  lemon,  and  put  it  inunediately  into  bottle. 
A  table-spoonful  of  this  stirred  up  in  a  tumbler  of  cold 
spring  water  makes  a  refireshlng  draught  without  the 
least  delay. 


640  BEVERAGES. 

Raspberry  Vinegary  A  To  be  added  to  water  as  a 
cooling  draught  in  summer,  or  to  quench  feverish  thirst 

Put  a  pound  of  raspberries  into  a  bowl,  and  crush 
them  well  with  a  wooden  spoon ;  pour  over  and  mix 
with  them  a  quart  of  the  best  white- wine  vinegar. 

Next  datfy  strain  the  liquor  over  another  pound  of 
fresh  raspberries ;  next  day,  do  the  same ;  but  in  these 
two  last  cases  do  not  squeeze  the  fruit,  only  drain  the 
liquor  away  as  completely  as  you  can.  Then  bottle 
your  Raspberry  Vinegar,  and  set  it  aside  for  fiiture  use. 
Small  bottles  or  pliials  (containing  about  half  a  pint) 
are  the  most  convenient,  in  order  to  have  the  vinegar 
fresh  and  fresh,  instead  of  letting  it  get  flat  by  standing 
long  in  a  large  bottle  that  has  been  opened. 

Raspberry  Vinegar j  B.  Put  a  good  quantity  of 
raspberries  into  a  stone  jar,  and  cover  them  with  white- 
wine  vinegar.  After  standing,  well  covered,  nine  or  ten 
days,  squeeze  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag.  To  the 
juice  add  an  equal  weight  of  lump-sugar  pounded.  Set 
it  on  the  fire,  and  keep  stirring  until  the  sugar  is  tho- 
roughly dissolved.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  for  fear  of  its 
becoming  too  thick;  but  skim  well,  and  when  nearly 
cold,  pour  off  into  bottles.  Cork  weU,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place  to  avoid  fermentation. 

Other  agreeable  fruit  vinegars  may  be  made  with 
strawberries,  currants,  cherries,  &c. 

Apple  Drink  Into  a  couple  of  quarts  of  boiling 
water  throw  two  table-spoonfrds  of  rice  and  half  a  dozen 
apples,  peeled,  cored,  and  sliced.  Boil  an  hour ;  then 
pass  the  liquor  through  a  cullender,  pressing  the  rice 


BEYBRAQES.  641 

and  apples  with  a  spoon,  but  not  squeezing  them  through. 
This  may  be  sweetened  if  the  patient  desires  it,  but  it 
allays  thirst  better  without  any  sugar. 

Sherbet.  Put  into  a  large  bowl  one  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar  and  the  juice  and  rinds  of  three  lemons.  Pour 
over  them  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  let  them  stand 
all  night. 

Next  day,  strain  the  liquor  through  a  doth ;  add  to 
it  five  bottles  of  currant  wine,  and  one  of  rum.  Mix  all 
well  together,  and  bottle  off  for  use. 

When  wanted,  mix  with  cold  spring  water  in  a 
tumbler. 

Seltzer  Watery  Home-made,  Have  ready  a  bottle 
with  a  metallic  capsule,  which  you  have  proved  to  fit 
hermetically  close.  Fill  the  bottle  with  pure  spring 
water  up  to  the  neck ;  throw  into  it  a  dram  of  tartaric 
acid  and  a  dram  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  both  in  powder. 
Screw  on  the  capsule  as  promptly  as  you  can.  In  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  it  is  fit  for  use.  It  may  be  drunk 
unmixed,  as  soda  water,  and  is  also  greatly  relished  in 
summer,  if  poured  into  a  tumbler  with  a  few  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  syrup  or  a  glass  of  wine  at  the  bottom. 

Ginger  Beer,  or  Pop,  A.  Take  three-quarters  of  an 
ounce  of  bruised  (not  grated)  ginger,  one  lemon  cut 
across  into  very  thin  slices,  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  one  ounce  of  loaf-sugar  cut  into  lumps. 

Pour  over  the  above  one  gallon  of  boiling  water, 
and  when  cooled  down  so  as  to  be  merely  tepid,  add  two 
table-spoonfiils  of  good  yeast 

Let  it  work  for  four  hours ;  then  strain  it  through 

TT 


642  BEVERAGES. 

a  coarse  linen  bag.  Allow  it  four  hours  more  to  settle  ; 
then  bottle  it,  tying  down  the  corks  with  string.  Laj 
down  the  bottles  on  their  sides,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  use 
in  ihree  or  fonr  days. 

Ginger  Popy  B.  Pat  into  a  tub  or  earthen  pot  two 
pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  two 
ounces  of  best  giioger  bruised,  and  two  lemons  cut  into 
slices.  Pour  over  them  three  gallons  of  boiling  water ; 
when  lukewarm,  toast  a  crust  of  bread,  spread  it  thicklj 
with  yeast,  and  put  it  into  the  liquor ;  mix  with  it  also 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  their  crushed  shells.  Let  all 
stand  till  next  morning,  and  then  strain  and  bottle  your 
Pop. 

Beer  from  Sugar  and  Hops.  The  cask  should  be 
placed  on  end,  as  for  cider,  with  a  hole  bored  in  the 
centre  of  the  top  large  enough  to  hold  a  large  stone- 
bottle  cork.  For  a  ten-gallon  cask,  boil  one  pound  and 
a  half  of  the  best  hops  in  eleven  gallons  of  boiling  water 
for  ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Then  strain 
the  liquor  upon  fourteen  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  and 
mix  in  with  it  a  pint  of  good  new  yeast  of  the  best 
quality.  Pour  the  whole  into  the  cask,  and  it.will  soon 
begin  to  ferment.  The  yeast  being  retained  on  the  top 
of  the  vessel  by  means  of  the  external  rim,  will,  for 
the  most  part,  fall  and  dissolve  into  a  liquid  shape,  and 
run  back  into  the  cask  through  the  central  hole.  In 
summer,  it  will  reqtiire  three  weeks  or  a  month  to  com- 
plete the  fermentation.  For  the  last  fortnight,  the  cork 
may  generally  be  kept  in  the  hole,  but  should  be  taken 
out  every  two  days  to  give  vent  to  the  fixed  air,  and 


BEYSBAOKS*  643 

then  replaced*  The  cork  may  then  be  stuck  in  per- 
manently, and  in  four  days  it  will  be  fit  for  draught  or 
bottling. 

May  Ihink  (German).  This  delicious  beverage  is 
limited  to  the  season  when  the  shoots  of  the  Woodruff 
{Aspervia  odorata)  are  firesh  and  tender — say  from  the 
middle  of  April  till  the  middle  of  June,  according  to 
dimate  and  situation.  For  earlier  use,  planta  may  be 
forced  in  a  hot-bed ;  but  their  perfume  will  be  inferior 
to  that  of  those  grown  naturally. 

Put  into  a  tankard — or  into  a  large  covered  glass 
made  for  the  purpose— a  small  bunch  of  woodruff,  a  few 
lumps  of  sugar,  and  two  or  three  slices  of  lemon,  or 
orange,  or  both.  Then  fill  up  with  common,  weak, 
white  wine;  the  poorest  and  thinnest  Bhine  wine  is 
the  proper  thing  to  use.  If  not  to  be  had,  Sauteme, 
Yin  de  Grave,  or  the  white  wines  of  the  Touraine,  as 
Beaugenoy,  may  be  used;  but  they  should  be  diluted 
with  water,  if  a  hearfy  draugM  is  to  be  indulged  in.  In 
moderation,  it  is  a  most  strengthening  drink  for  con- 
valescents. Half  red  Rhine  wine  and  half  white  may 
be  employed.  Cider,  with  a  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira 
in  it,  makes  not  a  bad  imitation. 

Let  all  steep,  in  a  very  cool  place,  a  few  hours,  or 
,  even  all  night,  with  the  cover  down,  and  serve  with  the 
things  floating  in  it. 

Malt  Wvne  (Ten  GhJlons),  A.  Make  a  strong  sweet- 
wort,  thus : 

Mash  one  bushel  of  malt  with  nine  gallons  of  water, 
and  then  boil  it  three-quarters  of  an  hour  with  three- 


644  BEVERAGES. 

quarters  of  a  pound  of  hops.  The  Jlrst  wort  of  this  is  to 
be  used  for  the  wine ;  the  second  will  make  yon  some 
nice  small  beer. 

Boil  twenty-four  pounds  of  loaf-sugar  in  eight  gal- 
lons of  water  for  half  an  hour,  skimming  well.  Pat  it 
into  a  tub,  and  when  milk-warm,  add  two  gallons  of  die 
above  sweet-wort,  the  fermentation  of  which  should 
have  commenced. 

In  three  days,  put  it  into  a  cask,  and  fill  it  up  daily 
until  it  ceases  to  ferment  Then  draw  off  a  sufficient 
quantity  to  allow  space  in  the  cask  for  the  foUowing 
articles:  Four  pounds  of  good  raisins  chopped,  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar-candy,  one  ounce  of  isinglass, 
and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds. 

The  addition  of  these  generally  causes  a  second 
fermentation;  the  bung,  therefore,  must  only  lie  light 
over  the  hole  until  it  subsides,  when  you  will  add  a 
quart  of  brandy,  and  then  stop  the  bung  down  dose. 

This  wine  should  be  kept  for  two  years  before  it  is 
drunk. 

Malt  Wine  (Six  Oallons),  B.  Pour  twelve  quarts 
of  boiling  water  over  eighteen  pounds  of  lump-sugar. 
When  cold,  add  to  it  six  quarts  of  good  sweet-wort  or 
tun.  Mix  them  well,  and  put  them  into  the  cask  with 
one  pound  of  best  raisins  chopped  small,  half  an  ounce 
of  isinglass,  and  a  pint  of  brandy.  Let  it  work  itself 
dear,  and  then  put  it  into  bottles. 

Ginger  Wine.  Take  four  gallons  of  spring  water, 
three  pounds  of  lump-sugar,  ten  ounces  of  ginger,  and 
the  rind  of  eight  lemons.     Boil  these  together  half  an 


BEVERAOES.  645 

hoxxTy  and  when  cooled  down  to  about  milk-warmih,  put 
the  decoction  into  the  cask,  with  the  juice  of  the  eight 
lemons,  one  pound  of  chopped  raisins,  and  a  little  yeast. 
Let  it  work  for  about  six  days,  filling  it  up  and  stirring 
it  from  the  bottom.  Put  in  a  pint  and  a  half  of  brandy, 
and  a  little  isinglass.  Close  it  up  with  the  bung,  and 
let  it  stand  three  or  four  weeks  before  bottling,  when 
you  will  put  a  little  brandy  at  the  bottom  of  each 
bottle.  The  beginning  of  March  is  the  best  time  to 
make  it. 

Grape  Wine.  Pick  the  grapes  off  the  stalks,  measure 
their  quantity,  and  then  bruise  or  crush  them  well.  Add 
to  them  the  same  quantity  of  spring  water  as  there 
was  of  uncrushed  grapes.  Let  it  stand  eight-and-forty 
hours;  then  strain  it,  and  to  eyery  gallon  put  four 
pounds  of  loaf-sugar.  Put  it  into  the  cask,  and  when 
a  little  settled  after  fermentation,  enrich  it  with  brandy, 
and  a  few  of  the  best  raisins  cut  in  halves. 

We  would  further  suggest  that  the  stalks  of  the 
grapes  be  also  steeped  together  with  the  fruit  Some 
of  the  elements  which  render  wine  restorative  are 
derived  from  the  stalks  of  the  bunches  of  grapes. 

White- Currant  Wine,  Measure  your  fruit;  broise 
it  well,  stalks  and  all ;  to  every  peck  of  finiit  allow  five 
quarts  of  water.  Stir  up  the  fruit  and  the  water  to- 
gether, and  let  them  stand  steeping  for  twelve  hours. 
Then  squeeze  and  strain  it  ofi^,  and  to  every  gallon  of 
juice  add  three  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar.  When  the 
sugar  is  completely  dissolved,  put  it  in  the  cask,  and  set 
it  to  work. 


646  BEVBRAGES. 

Parsnip  Wine.*  To  three  pounds  of  sliced  parsnips 
put  one  gallon  of  water.  Boil  them  till  qtute  soft,  then 
strain  the  liquor  away.  Add  to  it  three  pounds  of  sugar ; 
boil  up  again,  removing  the  scum  as  it  rises,  and  then 
treat  like  other  home-made  wines. 

Orange  Wine,  To  each  gallon  of  water  allow 
three  and  a  half  pounds  of  loaf-sugar.  Boil  them 
together,  and  take  off  the  scum.  When  cold,  add  (for 
each  gallon  of  water)  the  juice  of  twelve  or  fourteen 
oranges,  and  one-third  of  the  peel  cut  lliin.  Let  it 
stand  so  for  four-and-tweniy  hours.  Then  work  it 
with  a  toast  spread  with  yeast  Let  it  stand  for  two 
days,  and  take  out  the  peel  before  putting  it  into  the 
cask. 

Some  housekeeper  consider  the  addition  of  a  few 
lemons  a  great  improvement. 

Raisin  Wine.  Allow  one  gallon  of  water  to  every 
six  pounds  of  chopped  raisins.  First,  put  half  that 
quantity  of  water  to  the  firuit,  and  let  it  stand  for  ten 
days,  stirring  it  every  day;  then  strain  it  o£  Then 
put  the  other  half  of  the  water  to  the  raisins,  and  let  it 
stand  another  ten  days.  Strain  it  off,  and  tun  the  two 
liquors  together. 

You  will  have  to  draw  off  the  wine  two  or  three 
times  before  it  is  fit  to  bottle.  March  is  the  best  time 
of  year  to  make  it 


*  **  Parsnip  wine  is  said  to  snrpftss  the  other  home-made  wines  as 
mneh  as  East-India  Madeira  does  that  of  the  Gape.  In  Ireland,  a 
pleasant  table-ieer  is  made  firom  parni^,  brewed  with  hops.'* — Mu^ 
tr€99  Margaret  Dodt, 


BSVEBAGKS.  647 

Change  LiqueurJ^  Into  a  wide-mouthed  glass  jar 
put  a  quart  of  good  brandy,  a  pound  of  lump-sugar 
reduced  to  powder,  and  a  quarter  of  a  stick  of  vanilla. 
Stir  these  until  the  sugar  is  melted.  Then  put  in  one 
fine,  smooth-rinded,  unspotted  orange  wIvoUj  without 
being  cut  in  any  way.  Cover  the  jar  down  dose,  and 
set  it  aside  in  a  warm  place.  This  liqueur  takes  two  or 
three  months  to  make,  so  as  to  be  well  impregnated  with 
the  perfume  of  the  orange. 

Some-fnade  Curofocu  Highly  approved.  Take  the 
rind  of  six  oranges,  peeling  it  off  as  thin  as  you  can, 
without  leaving  any  of  the  white  skin  adhering  to  it. 
Put  it  into  a  large  glass  jar  with  a  metal  cover  closing 
tight.  Pour  over  the  rinds  a  quart  of  the  best  brandy, 
and  as  much  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine.     Let  them 


*  Liquenn  are  highly  esteemed  in  England,  are  costly  to  import, 
and  yet  are  easily  made  at  home. 

A  ghastly  anecdote,  illustratiye  of  the  deep  sincerity  of  dinner- 
friendships,  and  the  profound  attachment  whereof  boon  companions 
are  capable,  long  suiriyed  the  miserable  Fauntleroy,  and  was,  within 
these  twenty  years,  told  for  truth  by  one  of  his  generation. 

His  elegant  dinners  had  been  particularly  renowned  for  some  re- 
markable and  unmatchable  Cura^oa.  He  had  been  frequently  asked  at 
his  own  table  of  whom  he  bought  it,  but  always  kept  the  secret.  When 
he  was  ordered  for  execution,  three  friends,  bound  to  him  by  the 
remembrance  of  many  feasts  and  many  glasses  of  this  famous  liqueur, 
had  a  parting  intenriew  with  him  in  his  condemned  ceU.  They  had 
discharged  themselres  of  such  edifying  remarks  as  they  had  brought 
with  them,  and  had  taken  their  final  leave  of  him,  and  were  about  to 
retire,  when  the  most  impressive  of  the  three  stepped  back,  and  said, 

"  Fauntleroy,  you  stand  on  the  verge  of  the  tomb,  and  Eternity 
awaits  you.  We  brought  nothing  into  this  world,  and  it  is  certain 
we  can  take  nothing  out  At  so  supreme  a  moment,  have  you  any 
objection  to  say  how  and  of  whom  you  procured  that  Curafoa  ?"— OU 
Stories  HetM,  in  "All  the  Year  Bound,"  vol.  xvL  p.  475. 


648  «  BEVXRA6E8. 

steep  in  a  warm  place  (on  the  kitchen  mantelflhelf  or 
in  a  sonny  window)  for  a  fortnight  Then  strain  the 
liquenr  carefnUy  away  from  the  orange-peeL 

Melt  in  a  saucepan  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  with 
the  help  of  a  wine-glass  of  water — ^not  more.  When 
melted,  and  nearly  cold,  pour  it  into  the  liqueur,  stirring 
well.     Then  bottle  it  off. 

If  wished  to  be  highly  and  brightly  coloured,  put  in 
a  little  saflfron  to  infuse  together  with  the  orange-peeL 

N.B.  In  making  any  similar  liqueurs,  note  that 
the  syrup  or  sugar  is  not  to  be  added  until  afier  the 
flavouring  ingredients  have  been  withdrawn.  Other- 
wise, thei/  would  absorb  their  share  of  sugar,  which, 
consequently,  would  be  wasted. 

Cassia — Black" Currant  Liqueur;  a  great  favourite. 
Does  this  derive  its  name  from  the  little  French  seaport 
on  the  Mediterranean  coast  ?  The  skins  only  of  the 
black  currants  are  used;  and  exemplary  housewives 
have  the  patience  to  squeeze  out  the  pulp  from  the 
currants,  one  by  one,  between  their  finger  and  thumb. 

Steep  a  pint  of  the  skins  in  a  quart  of  rectified  spirit 
for  a  fortnight  in  a  warm  place.  Then  strain  the  liqueur 
from  the  skins,  and  add  to  it  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar. 

Angelica  Liqueur^  reputed  highly  stomachic  Use 
the  same  proportions  of  sugar  and  spirit,  after  infusing 
in  the  latter  several  angelica  leaf-stalks.  This  liqueur, 
when  finished,  should  be  of  a  light  sea-green  hue. 

Raspberry  Liqueur.  Proceed  as  above,  allowing 
three  pints  of  raspberries  to  a  quart  of  spirit 

Cherry  Brandy.     Wipe  the  cherries  well;  see  that 


BEYERAOES.  .  649 

ihey  have  no  blemish,  not  even  the  slightest  scratch  or 
spot ;  cut  the  stalks  to  half  their  length. 

To  three  pints  of  cherries  allow  a  quart  of  good 
brandy  or  rectified  spirit  of  wine,  and  keep  in  a  warm 
place  for  the  first  fortnight  or  three  weeks. 

Home-made  Noyau.  Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
sweet  almonds  and  the  same  quantity  of  bitter  ditto, 
both  blanched  and  cut  small,  with  one  pound  of  loaf- 
sugar,  into  a  quart  of  British  gin.  Keep  them  in  a 
warm  place;  mix  and  stir  them  firequently  during  a 
fortnight;  then  strain  and  filter  into  your  liqueur- 
bottles. 

Lait  de  Poule  au  Rhum — Hen's  Milk  and  Bum. 
Pleasant  Cure  for  an  Unpleasant  Complaint.  Boil  a 
pint  of  good,  firesh  milk.  Beat  (not  firoth)  an  egg  until 
it  has  become  as  liquid  as  you  can  make  it  Pour  it 
slowly  into  the  milk,  stirring  gently  all  the  while. 
When  well  mixed,  add  three  lumps  of  sugar.  If  it  be  a 
ffrovm  person  who  has  caught  the  Bad  Cold,  throw  in  a 
wine-glassfiil  of  rum ;  for  young  people,  the  dose  must 
be  proportionally  less.  Swallow  this  cordial  hot  at  bed- 
time, or,  better  still,  after  going  to  bed.  Its  efiects  are 
so  agreeable  and  comforting,  that  the  only  fear  is, 
having  taken  it  once,  you  will  catch  another  bad  cold  at 
the  first  opportunity,  to  afford  you  a  pretext  for  taking 
it  again. 

Sherry  Cobbler  (American).  Take  a  glass  one- 
half  full  of  sherry  wine ;  sweeten,  and  fill  with  fine  ice. 
Suck  it  through  a  straw  or  slender  glass  tube,  to  prolong 
the  pleasure  and  avoid  the  tooth-ache. 


650  BEVEBAGES. 

Fruit  Cobbler  (American).  Take  half  a  glass  of 
ihe  juioe  of  any  firait;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  fill  up  the 
glass  with  ice  broken  very  fine. 

Milk  Punchy  A.  Mix  together  two  qnarts  of  old 
milk,  one  quart  of  good  brandy,  the  juice  of  six  lemons, 
of  six  oranges,  and  six  ounces  of  lump-sugar.*  Bun  this 
through  a  jelly-bag  into  which  you  have  put  the  peel  of 
two  lemons :  or  you  may  rub  the  lumps  of  sugar  on  the 
lemons,  before  dissolving  them  in  the  brandy  and  nulk. 
Bottle  immediately,  and  it  will  keep  as  long  as  you 
please. 

MUk  Punchy  B.  Peel  off  the  rinds  firom  sixteen 
lemons,  and  steep  them  for  three  days  in  a  quart  of  mm. 
Then  add  three  quarts  of  rum,  five  quarts  of  water,  the 
juice  of  three  lemons,  three  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  and 
two  quarts  of  boiling  skimmed  milk.  Cover  the  whole 
dose,  and  let  it  stand  for  two  hours.  Then  fine  it 
through  a  flannel  bag,  and  bottle  it  off. 

White-  WirHs  Whey.  (To  be  drunk  hot,  as  a  Sudori- 
fic.) Boil  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  with  the  same  quantity 
of  water,  and  a  table-spoonfiil  of  pounded  sugar.  When 
it  boils  up,  throw  in  a  couple  of  wine-glasses  of  sheny 
or  Madeira. 

Treacle  Posset,  Set  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  and 
half  a  pint  of  water  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan.  Stir  in 
two  table-spoonfuls  of  treacle,  and  boil  up.  This  and 
the  preceding  may  be  made  with  pure  milk — tf  the 
patients  stomach  can  bear  it. 

Cream-o/- Tartar  Drink.  Put  into  a  large  jug  one 
oimce  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  lemon  sliced,  and  a  few 


BEVEBAOES.  651 

lumps  of  sugar^  to  taste.  Four  over  the  whole  one 
quart  of  boiling  water,  and  set  it  aside  to  cool. 

BaspaiTa  Labourers^  Drink.  For  a  thousand  parta 
of  water,  take  four  parts  of  liquorice-root,  four  parts  of 
vinegar,  and  from  ten  to  twenty  parts  of  brandy.  Boil 
the  liquorice-root  in  the  water,  then  mix  in  the  other 
substances,  and  pass  the  whole  through  a  funnel  im- 
perfectly plugged  with  a  bunch  of  lavender,  marjoram, 
thyme,  wormwood,  sage,  and  other  aromatic  and  in- 
noxious plants.  This  drink  is  cheap,  and  eminently 
wholesome  for  haymakers,  harvestmen,  and  others,  who 
have  to  work  in  summer  exposed  to  the  sun. 

Lemon  or  Vinegar  Wliey.  Instead  of  adding  wine  to 
the  sugared  milk,  use  sufficient  lemon-juice  or  vinegar 
to  form  a  curd.  Boil  up,  and  strain  clear.  This  drink 
is  less  heating  than  white-wine  whey. 

Fruit'ode  (American).  Take  one  part  of  the  juice 
of  any  fruit  to  one  of  water  and  one  of  ice ;  sweeten  to 
taste.  * 

Barley  Negm  (American).  To  one  pint  of  barley 
water,  put  half  a  pint  of  wine,  a  table-spoonful  of  lemoh« 
juice,  with  grated  nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste. 


2.  HERB-DRINKS  AND  TISANES. 

There  is  a  branch  of  the  culinary  art,  once  cultivated 
by  our  housewives  in  the  olden  time,  which  is  too  much 
neglected  by  the  modem  English,  though  our  neighbours 
on  the  Continent  avail  themselves  of  its  aid  whenever  need 


652  BEVERAGES. 

requires.  In  our  Cookery  for  the  Sick,  we  have  a  great 
variety  of  nice  little  tempting  dishes  of  the  solid  and 
nntritions  class;  soch  as  pnddings,  jellies,  and  blanc- 
manges, besides  eggs  and  farinaceons  food  under  various 
aspects :  bat  we  are  limited  in  our  resources  as  to  liquid 
preparations. 

Those  which  we  make  nowadays  are  mostly  too 
good  for  invalids.  Strong  beef-tea  and  concentrated 
mutton-broth  are  more  fitted  to  feed  any  internal  fire 
than  to  quench  it  Sick  men's  soups,  with  us,  are 
hardly  diluent  enough  to  drench  and  wash  away  a 
tenacious  indisposition,  and  to  sweep  it  before  it  by  a 
deluge  of  draughts.  Our  real  English  soups — ^mock- 
turtle,  ox-tail,  or  giblet — are  meat,  drink,  and  vinous 
refireshment,  all  in  one;  and  excellent  they  are  for 
men  in  robust  health,  taking  strong  exerdse;  but  we 
really  are  deficient  in  those  mild,  yet  not  utterly  limpid 
and  simple,  beverages,  which  inundate  the  bodily  system, 
as  the  Nile  ovelrfiows  its  valley,  drowning  many  a  noxious 
intruder,  and  leaving  behind  it  a  decidedly  beneficial 
infiuence. 

Herb  Drinksj  or  Tisanes  (more  learnedly  spelt 
Ptisanesj  being  derived  from  imaavfi^  husked  and 
pounded  barley,  and  also  the  barley  water  prepared  firom 
the  same),  are  a  class  of  domestic  medicines  always 
made  at  home.  Of  all  the  forms  of  taking  physic^ 
Tisanes  are  the  most  largely  employed  in  France. 
Without  consulting  the  doctor,  and  by  a  sort  of  instinct^ 
people  have  recourse  to  them  at  the  slightest  indisposition. 
Often  they  form  the  only  treatment.     Professional  men 


BEVERAGES.  653 

prescribe  them  always,  either  on  account  of  the  real 
service  they  render,  or  in  obedience  to  the  public  opinion 
touching  their  utiliiy,  or  simply  to  quiet  the  sick  man^s 
mind.  Even  when  useless,  they  amuse  the  patient 
with  the  semblance  of  a  serious  treatment;  they  gain 
time,  and  allow  the  healing  power  of  nature  to  work 
unchecked  by  the  grosser  diet  which  they  replace  for 
the  time. 

Sick  people  mostly  crave  for  something  to  take  to  do 
them  good ;  they  are  hard  to  be  persuaded  that,  in  many 
cases,  nature  alone  will  effect  their  cure.  It  is  a  matter 
of  importance  to  humour  them ;  and  herb-drinks  step  in 
to  fill  the  gap  (playing  the  part  of  proxy  to  active  drugs) 
in  the  shape  of  a  harmless  beverage.  Their  utility  is  so 
universally  recognised,  that  recourse  is  had  to  them  at 
the  first  symptom  of  indisposition,  whether  in  conse- 
quence of  thirst  and  heat  felt  by  the  patient,  or  in 
deference  to  wide-spread  and  traditional  notions.  The 
addition  of  a  considerable  quantity  of  liquid  absorbed  and 
carried  into  the  circulation,  and  brought  into  contact 
with  the  different  tissues,  has  actually  real  advantages  in 
the  majority  of  cases.  The  benefit  derived  from  Tisanes, 
whose  use  is  the  result  of  the  sick  man's  longing,  is  fiilly 
proved  by  experience.  They  comprise  the  whole  pharma- 
ceutical machinery  necessary  to  set  going,  in  order  to 
obtain  the  multitude  of  cures  which,  with  Tisanes' 
humble  aid,  nature  alone  suffices  to  effect 

It  may  be  boldly  stated  that  more  than  half  the 
illnesses  (not  fatal)  suffered  in  France  are  brought  to  a 
happy  issue  by  the  sole  employment  of  an  appropriate 


654  BEYEBAGES. 

herb-drink;  and,  in  those  illnesses  in  which  more 
decided  means  are  obliged  to  be  employed,  the  herb- 
drink  comes  in  for  its  full  share  of  credit.  A  maladj  to 
be  treated  without  Tisane  scarcely  enters  into  Fr^ich 
ideas  of  general  therapeutics,  unless  in  certain  local 
affections,  or  in  a  few  external  and  inconsiderable  lesions. 
Many  a  patient  attributes  his  recovery  to  the  herb  or  the 
blossom  of  which  his  drink  is  made,  who  would  haye 
been  thrown  into  great  depression  and  perplexity  by 
advising  him  to  abstain  from  Tisane,  and  to  trust  to  the 
unassisted  vital  energies  of  his  own  constitution. 

Tisanes,  then,  are  liquids  which  contain  in  dissolution 
a  certain  quantity  of  medicinal  principles,  and  which  are 
intended  to  serve  as  the  habitual  beverage  of  sick 
persons.  Tisanes  may  be  grouped  into  several  distinct 
classes  in  respect  to  the  elements  which  ihey  hold  in 
suspension.  The  selection  of  the  class  to  be  administered 
to  different  patients,  or  to  the  same  patient  at  different 
stages  of  his  complaint,  must  rest  with  the  medical 
attendant,  or  with  the  whim  or  inclination  felt  by  the 
invalid,  and  the  faith  he  places  in  its  curative  powers. 
Many  valetadinarians  have  their  fevourite  herb^rink 
which,  and  no  other,  they  firmly  believe  will  restore  them 
to  their  wonted  health. 

Herb-drinks,  too,  are  subject  to  the  fashion  of  the 
day.  They  have  their  riise  and  fall,  like  gigot-sleeves, 
short  waists,  crinoline,  and  mustard-seed.  A  long- 
lived  physician  will  have  seen  the  reign  and  the 
decadence  of  toast-and-water,  chicken  broth,  ground-ivy 
tea,  and  many  others.    Tisanes,  also,  have  local  reputa* 


BEVERAGES.  655 

tions.  In  England,  in  Sydenham's  time,  small  beer 
was  in  vogne;  monntainons  ootmtries  generally  patronise 
buttermilk  and  whey ;  the  Spaniards  pnt  their  tmst  in 
cacao.  Yery  weak  tea,  made  by  boiling  a  mere  pinch  in 
a  tea-kettle,  is  fast  rising  in  Continental  esteem. 

As  the  amount  of  active  or  nutritive  principle  con* 
tained  in  Tisanes  is  exceedingly  small  in  proportion  to 
their  bulk,  they  approach  homoeopathic  remedies  in  one 
respect.  Begarding  them  in  another  light,  they  act  by 
a  sort  of  moral  power  or  psychical  force,  through  the 
implicit  confidence  placed  in  them  by  a  numerous  body 
of  patients ;  while  the  quantity  of  fluid  they  contain  has 
an  tmdeniable  influence,  especially  when  taken  warm,  in 
promoting  perspiration  and  other  aqueous  discharges- 
from  the  human  frame.  With  this  very  object  in  view^ 
they  are  always  concocted  to  be  as  agreeable  to  the  taste 
and  as  light  to  the  stomach  as  possible. 

There  is,  however,  a  Purgative  Tisane  which  ought 
to  be  banished  from  the  realms  of  medical  art,  in  conse- 
quence of  its  sinning  against  this  very  rule,  although  it 
is  known  by  the  stylo  of  Royal  Tisane.  We  can  under- 
stand the  wish  to  prolong  agreeable  sensations,  and  the 
desire  to  have  a  neck  as  long  as  a  crane's  when 
a  man  has  epicurean  delicacies  set  before  him;  but 
it  seems  a  wanton  Belf-tortnre  to  expose  one's  gas- 
tatory  organs  to  the  slow  passage  over  them  of  a  pint  or 
more  of  liquid  highly  flavoured  with  senna,  liquorice, 
gayac,  rhubarb,  sarsaparilla,  squills,  coriander,  and 
lemon-juice.  We  are  perfectly  content  to  cede  the 
royal  draught  to  those  who  have  the  right  divine  to  quaff 


656  BEVEBAGE& 

it,  and  to  content  ourselves  with  the  same  ingredients 
swallowed  nnder  a  plebeian  pilnlar  form. 

The  true  way  of  effecting  a  tisane-care  of  the  nume- 
rous small  ailments  which  few  people  die  of,  but  which 
ixte  ailments  and  annoyances  nevertheless,  is  to  do  as 
you  would  in  a  case  of  water-cure,  of  grape-cure,  or  any 
other  regimen  in  vogue,  viz.  adhere  strictly  to  your  orders, 
and  be  true  to  your  flag.  You  must  swallow  no  other  drink 
but  Tisane  so  long  as  you  are  seeking  restoration  through 
its  aid ;  and  certainly  some  effect— often  beneficial — ^must 
be  produced  on  the  frame  by  a  complete  abstinence  for  a 
week  or  ten  days  from  strong  tea  or  coffee,  in  repeated 
cupsful;  from  porter,  by  the  pot;  from  pale  ale  and 
Guinness,  in  reiterated  pints ;  from  bottles  of  brown 
sherry,  and  the  same  of  port ;  fit)m  whets  and  drams, 
and  sips  of  liquor  innumerable ;  from  double  and  triple 
nightcaps  of  hot  brandy -and -water,  mm-punch,  or 
whisky -toddy ;  not  to  mention  American  cooling 
draughts,  such  as  cobblers  and  juleps,  taken  during  the 
course  of  the  day,  which  count  for  nothing  in  the  con- 
sumer's estimate. 

From  all  these  incendiaries  the  stomach  is  assured,  as 
long  as  the  Tisane  policy  is  taken  up.  The  first  effect 
may  be  a  slight  lassitude  and  a  lackadaisical  sort  of 
feeling ;  but  afl^erwards  comes  activity  of  the  perceptive 
powers,  combined  with  lightness  and  fi^hness  of  the 
bodily  feelings,  till  an  increased  appetite  and  a  longing 
for  the  individual's  usual  diet  shows  that  Tisane  has  done 
its  duty,  and  that  the  patient  may  be  his  usual  self  again, 
provided  always  that  his  original  and  every-day  self  do  not 


BSVXRAOES.  657 

indulge  in  habits  of  such  excess  that  long  continuance  in 
them  is  impossible  to  mortal  man. 

Of  course,  no  inyalid  on  the  verge  of  delirium  tremens y 
or  within  it,  can  suddenly  renounce  his  stimulant  and 
confine  himself  to  Tisane  without  running  a  risk ;  but 
medical  men  can  prescribe  the  amount  of  stimulant  or 
sedatiye  to  be  taken  medicinally  during  a  course  of 
Tisane,  as  they  can  the  administration  of  any  other  drug 
that  may  be  specially  required.  Moreover,  when  once  a 
man  is  fairly  attacked  by  delirium  tremens^  the  best  thing 
he  can  do  is — ^we  mean,  the  best  thing  he  could  have 
done  would  have  been — ^to  avoid  the  causes  of  delirium 
tremens* 

Tisanes  are  easily  prepared  by  travellers  on  land ;  for 
several  of  the  plants  affording  them  are  almost  cosmopo- 
lite. On  board  ship,  a  small  packet  of  dried  simples 
would  supply  the  ordinary  requirements  of  a  crew,  a 
scarcity  of  water  being  the  only  obstacle  to  be  appre- 
hended. Be  it  remembered,  too,  that  the  herb-teas  of 
our  ancestresses,  many  of  their  still-room  secrets,  and  the 
drinks  given  by  Ladies  Benevolent  to  their  well-behaved 
poor,  and  by  Beauties  Bright  to  their  wounded  knights, 
were  neither  more  nor  less  than  true  Tisanes.  They  have 
all  this  grand  merit, — ^that,  if  they  do  no  good,  they  can 
scarcely  do  harm. 

The  temperature  of  this  class  of  medicaments  is  not 
a  matter  of  indifference.  In  general,  they  are  taken 
warm,  or  hot ;  the  rule  is  good  in  a  great  number  of  cases, 
but  is  far  from  applicable  to  every  derangement  of  health. 
Inflammatory  diseases,  other  than  those  of  the  respira- 

vv 


658  BBYSRAGES.. 

toiy  passageB  or  the  skin — ^genuine  fevers — affections 
wfaioli  are  acoompanied  by  a  sensation  of  inwaid  burning, 
and  in  which  the  breathing  is  impeded,  difficult,  or  re- 
tarded by  debility, — ^require  cold  drinks;  some  of  them, 
even  iced  Tisanes.  In  disease  of  the  Imigs,  on  the  other 
hand,  whether  with  fever  and  congh,  or  even  without 
fever,  but  of  a  catarrhal  character,  cold  drinks  are  in- 
jurious; hot  Tisanes  are  best,  because  they  fsicilitate 
expectoration.  Skin  diseases  also  require  hot  Tisanes, 
for  different  reasons.  As  to  the  quantity  to  be  imbibed, 
the  patient  is  generally  permitted  to  drink  at  discretion. 

In  a  few  dropsical  cases  only  would  restriction  be 
laid  on  the  daily  allowance,  which  would  vary  according 
to  the  state,  habits,  constitution,  and  complaint  of  the 
drinker. 

And  now  for  the  Beceipts  to  make  various  Tisanes, 
fi:t>m  high  scientific  and  official  authority.  They  are 
much  less  difficult  than  either  Medea^s  broth,  or  the  more 
modem  composition  prepared  by  Macbeth^s  witches. 

Burdock  Tisane;  a  purifier.  Take  of  roots  of  burdock, 
slightly  pounded  in  a  mortar,  three-quarters  of  an  ounce ; 
of  boiling  water,  one  quart.  Infiise  three  hours,  strain, 
and  decani  Prepare  in  the  same  manner  tisanes  firom 
the  roots  of  smallage,  angelica,  asparagus,  elecampane, 
Eoland- thistle,  male -fern,  strawberry,  marsh-mallow, 
patience,  and  soapwort.  Exactly  the  same  for  bark 
tisanes,  firom  gray  quinquina,  yellow  quinquina,  fir-tree 
buds,  elder,  and  simarouba — ^a  Jamaican  tree. 

Polygala  Tisane.  Take  of  Virginian  polygala,  a 
quarter  of  au  ounce;  of  boiling  water,  one  quart   Infuse 


BEVSBAQBS.  659 

two  hours,  and  strain.  In  the  same  way  you  may  make 
tisanes  from  the  roots  of  bitter  quassia,  sassafras,  yalerian, 
and  box. 

Couch'-ffrtus  TUane;  an  emollient  diuretic,  in  high 
repute.  Wash  tluree-quarters  of  an  ounce  of  couch-grass 
(the  roots  and  the  plant)  in  cold  water ;  bruise  them  in 
a  marble  mortar,  and  boil  them  for  an  hour  in  a  quantify 
of  water  sufficient  to  obtain  a  quart  of  tisane ;  strain 
and  decant.  In  the  same  way,  you  can  make  tisane  of 
the  roots  of  the  Provence  cane,  Arundo  DonaXy  and  of 
oomfiey. 

Borage  Tisasie.  Borage-leaves  (dried),  half  an 
ounce;  boiling  water,  one  quart.  Infuse  for  an  hour, 
and  strain.  In  the  same  way,  prepare  tisanes  from  the 
leaves  of  mugwort,  capillaire,  or  maiden's-hair  fern, 
vernal  speedwell,  blessed  thistle,  chicory,  fumitoiy, 
orange-tree,  parietary,  wild  pansy,  soapwort,  scabious, 
scolopendrium,  brooklime,  senna,  rupturewort,  and 
various  species  of  veronica. 

Hyssop  Tisane,  Hyssop-leaves,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce;  boiling  water,  one  quart  Iniuse  for  an  hour, 
and  strain.  Proceed  similarly  for  tisanes  from  the  leaves 
of  calamint,  ground  ivy,  horehound,  balm,  marjoram, 
and  sage.  Here  we  are  in  the  category  of  aromatic 
herb-drinks;  and  why  need  a  man  die  whose  garden 
gives  him  sage  ? — 

'*  Cor  moriatar  homo  cui  salria  crescit  in  horto  V*  ' 

Tisane  of  Arrdea-flowers.  Flowers  (dried),  the 
flixth  of  an  ounce ;  boiling  water,  one  quart     lofose 


660  BEVERAOBS. 

for  an  hour^  and  strain  tlirough  a  thick  doth.  The  same 
preparation  for  tisanes  of  camomile-flowers,  field  poppy, 
fever  few,  and  elder. 

MtJlein-fiower  Tisane.  Mnllein-Uossoms,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce ;  boiling  water,  one  quart  Infuse  for  an 
hour,  and  strain.  The  same  for  tisanes  of  the  litde 
oentaarj,  marsh*mallow,  common  mallow,  red  roees, 
lime-tree,  coltsfoot,  and  violets.  All  these  are  tonic  and 
mucilaginous  bitters,  excitants  of  perspiration. 

Aniseed  Tisane.  Seed,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce ;  boil- 
ing water,  one  quart  Infuse  two  hours,  and  strain.  So 
also  are  prepared  tisanes  of  juniper-berries,  bitter-orange 
peel,  and  linseed,  commonly  called  linseed  tea. 

Prune  Tisane.  French  Plums  or  Prunes,  two  ounoes 
and  a  half;  cut  them  in  two,  and  boil  them  an  hour  in 
a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  to  make  a  quart  of  tisane  ; 
strain  through  a  sieve.  Thus,  likewise,  for  tisanes  of 
dates,  figs,  and  jujubes. 

Rice  Tisane^  known  better  as  Rice  Water.  Boil  half 
an  ounce  of  rice,  till  it  is  cracked  and  broken  up  to  a 
mash,  in  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  to  make  a  quart 
of  the  beverage ;  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  The 
same  mode  serves  for  Pearl-barley  WaJter  and  Oatmeal 
Water. 

Veal  BrotL  Lean  fillet  of  veal,  the  third  of  a  pound ; 
river-water,  one  quart  Cook  over  gentle  heat  in  a 
dose-covered  vessel  for  two  hours;  strain  the  broth 
when  cold.  The  same  for  broths  of  calf's  lights,  chicken, 
IJpesh-water  crawfish,  tortoises,  and  flrogs — none  of  which 
ever  want  a  good  word  from  those  who  speak  their 


BEVEBAOSS.  661 

praise — to  which  list  many  tisane-lovers  would  add 
snails,  and  even  snakes. 

N.B.  Several  of  the  above-named  simples,  aa 
borage  and  marsh-mallow,  often  produce,  when  adminis- 
tered as  tisane,  a  loading  of  the  stomach  or  nausea, 
which  the  medical  attendant  maj  be  tempted  to  attribute 
to  causes  unconnected  with  plants  of  so  little  activity. 
This  inconvenient  and  injurious  6£Pect  is  owing  to  the 
stiff  bristles  found  on  the  borage  and  the  cottony  down 
on .  the  calyces  of  the  mallow.  These  substances,  if 
allowed  to  pass  into  the  tisane  by  the  employment  of  a 
coarse  or  imperfect  strainer,  irritate  the  stomach  by 
their  mechanical  action.  All  tisanes  from  downy  plants 
should,  therefore,  be  strained  through  several  folds  of  fine 
doth,  or,  better,  through  filtering  paper. 

To  the  above  remarks  let  us  add,  that  it  is  better  to 
make  tisane  in  small  quantities,  as  wanted,  just  as  you 
would  do  to  have  a  delicate-fiavoured  cup  of  tea.  If  the 
flowers  or  herbs  remain  too  long  in  their  infusion,  you 
extract  from  them  more  than  you  want — bitter  and 
rough  principles  belonging  to  the  herbs,  which  are  better 
left  behind.  Quick-drawn  tisane,  like  whisky  from  an 
illicit  still,  is  good,  because  it  is  made  in  a  hurry.  Only 
the  most  volatile  and  aromatic  particles  enter  into  com- 
bination with  the  liquid  so  prepared. 

The  reader,  who  now  knows  the  mystery  of  Herb- 
Drinks,  is  entreated  to  make  a  reasonable  use  of  his 
knowledge,  and  not  to  run  into  pernicious  excess.  The 
French  are  actually  fond  of  tisanes,  and  drink  enormous 
quantities  for  the  mere  love  of  the  thing.    We  have 


662  BEVERAGES. 

heard  of  hypocritical  people  yisiting  their  sick  firiends^ 
not  through  any  real  sympathy,  but  from  the  selfish 
motive  of  sipping  their  tisane.  In  the  north  of  France^ 
the  passion  is  restrained  within  moderate  limits ;  but  in 
the  south,  there  are  hypochondriacal  monomaniacs  who 
keep  the  tisane-pot  stewing  from  mom  till  midnight^ 
Sundays  and  working  days.  They  change  the  materials 
of  their  tisane  several  times  a  day,  injure  their  stomachs, 
disorder  their  digestion,  upsetting  every  intestinal  fimc- 
tion,  till  they  make  themselves  really  and  seriouslj  ill ; 
at  which  they  drink  more  and  more  tisane,  running  the 
round  of  what  is  called  ^'  a  vicious  cirde.'* 

For  such  doleful  sufferers,  the  most  fortunate  event 
would  be  to  have  their  tisane-pot  blown  up  by  a  school- 
boy's squib,  and  to  find  their  unpalatable  draught  re- 
placed by  a  tender  mutton-chop  and  a  bottle  of  good  old 
daret. 


WBINSLBS.  663 


WRINKLES. 

WouAN^s  special  occupation  is  the  administration  of  her 
household. 

The  most  useful  and  honourable  knowledge  and  em- 
ployment for  the  mother  of  a  family  is  the  science  of 
housekeeping. 

It  is  good  order,  and  not  sordid  sparing,  which  raises 
straitened  families  to  easy  circumstances. 


Order  has  three  advantages:  it  relieves  our  memory; 
it  saves  our  time ;  and  it  preserves  our  property. 


Economy  is  a  virtue  in  poverty,  a  prudential  measure 
in  moderate  circumstances,  and  a  vice  in  opulence. 


Can  the  world  show  a  spectacle  more  touching  or 
worthy  of  respect  than  that  of  a  mother  surrounded  by 
her  children,  directing  the  labours  of  her  servants,  in- 
suring her  husband  a  happy  life,  and  wisely  ruling  her 
family? 


664  WBDrsLEfiU 

<<  The  sabject  of  oookeiy  is  worthy  of  stadj,  and  one 
to  which  English  people  would  do  well  to  give  their 
attention.  If  that  man  is  a  bene£eu)tor  to  his  race  who 
makes  two  blades  of  grass  grow  where  onl j  one  did 
before,  that  art  must  be  worth  cultivation  that  enables  a 
person  to  make  one  pound  of  meat  go  as  fiur,  bj  proper 
cooking,  as  two  by  neglect  and  inattention*'' — Dr.  Lanr 
heater's  "  Good  Food.'' 

Sarah  Cole's  Rece^for  Scolding  Dames.    Take  of: 

Common  Sense,  thirty  grains ; 
Decent  Behaviour,  one  scruple ; 
Due  Consideration,  ten  grains. 

Mix  and  sprinkle  the  whole  with  one  moment's  thought. 
A  dose  to  be  taken  as  soon  as  any  of  the  occasional  causes 
appear. — (Signed),  S.  C. 


Never  allow  yourself  to  speak  in  a  £retftd  manner 
to  your  help ;  as,  by  so  doing,  you  lose  your  own  self- 
respect  and  their  esteem.  When  any  fault  needs  correct- 
ing, do  it  in  kindness,  speaking  in  a  lady-like  manner. 


Take  interest  in  the  moral  welfare  of  your  help,  and 
show  yourself  their  friend ;  and  a  servant  worth  keeping 
will  fully  repay  your  kindness  by  fidthfiil  service.  We 
should  hear  less  complaints  of  servants,  if  mistresses 
would  oflener  do  their  duty  to  those  under  them. 


WBQTELES.  665 

Daring  fly-season,  the  plates  should  be  tamed  bottom- 
side  up. 

Gastronomic  Logic  Digestion  is  the  stomach's  busi- 
ness ;  indigestion  is  the  doctor's  affair.  Therefore,  when 
you  are  once  sat  down  to  a  good  dinner,  jou  need  think 
aboat  nothing  but  enjoying  yourself. 


Not  only  is  it  necessary  to  point  out  delinquencies 
kindly,  bat  every  improvement  should  be  as  constantly 
noticed*  "  Sally,  your  floor  looks  nicely,"  goes  a  long 
way  towards  another  scrabbing.  When  any  article 
is  broken,  unless  it  happened  throngh  disobedience  to 
some  order,  pass  it  lightly  with,  '^  I  am  sorry  it  is 
broken;  try  to  be  more  careful  for  the  future;"  and, 
generally,  it  will  have  the  desired  effect  Never  dismiss 
help  in  anger ;  they  will  snrely  give  you  a  bad  name. 
Servants  are  sometimes  very  qnick-tempered,  and  will 
themselves  speak  improperly.  Leave  them  immediately, 
without  noticing  what  they  say,  and  they  will  soon  cool 
down,  and  oflen  ask  forgiveness.  If  they  do  not,  leave 
it  for  the  present,  and  at  some  future  time  calmly  say : 
*^  If  we  cannot  get  along  pleasantly,  we  mast  part" 


Polish  for  Furniture^  A.     Melt  over  a  slow  fire,  an 
ounce  and  a  half  of  bees' -wax,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
tnrpentine,  and  a  piece  of  resin  the  size  of  a  hazel-nut 
Take  care  the  mixture  do  not  catch  fire.     When  melted, 
stir  into  it  as  much  rose-pink  as  will  lie  on  a  sixpence. 


666  WBINKLES. 

Furmture  PcuUj  J3.  Boil  a  pennyworth  of  CasdQe- 
soap,  cat  up  into  small  pieces,  in  a  pint  of  water,  until  it 
is  rednced  to  half  a  pint.  Then  add  half  an  ounce  of 
white  wax  and  half  an  ounce  of  common  yellow  bees'- 
wax.  When  these  are  dissolved,  put  in  half  a  pint  of 
turpentine,  and  mix  all  well  together. 


JBandolineyfor  Beaut^ymff  the  Hairy  A.  Soak  starchy 
or  Irish  moss  (whichever  you  please),  in  rose-water, 
until  dissolved  and  smooth.  If  you  wish  it  to  be  pink, 
colour  with  a  little  pounded  cochineaL 


JBandoliney  B.  Half  fill,  with  quince-pips,  an  up- 
right, wide-mouthed  bottle, — an  empty  pickle-bottle  will 
do.  Fill  the  bottle  nearly  to  the  top  with  water,  and 
boil  for  an  hour  in  a  hot-water  bath.  The  resulting 
decoction  makes  capital  bandoline.  Scent  and  colour  it 
with  whatever  you  please. 


JE^xceUent  Stimulant  Wash  for  the  Hair.  On  reflec- 
tion, the  Doctor  retains  this  amongst  his  unpublished 
Mss.,  because  it  cbntains  a  dangerous  ingredient — Spanish 
Fly,  or  Cantharides. 

Pleasant  Liquid  Dentifrice.  Kept  in  the  closet  (the 
directions  say,  in  any  dark  place)  for  the  same  reason. 
People  may  not  trifle  with  chloroform.  It  is  dangerous 
to  play  with  edged  tools. 


WBINELES.  667 

Dye  for  Improvmg  the  Hue  of  the  Hair*  Ditto,  idem. 
People  have  been  known  to  be  poisoned  with  sagar-of- 
lead. 


Cold  Cream,  Melt  together  at  the  bottom  of  a  basin, 
one  ounce  of  spermaceti,  two  ounces  of  oil-of-almonds, 
and  a  piece  of  white  wax  as  big  as  a  hazel-nui  When 
these  are  melted  and  well  mixed,  pour  over  them  a  pint 
of  cold  spring  water,  and  let  them  stand  for  four-and- 
twenty  hours.  Then  pour  away  aU  the  water,  and  pound 
the  mixed  residue  in  a  mortar. 


A  Perfume  (French).  Mix  together  the  fresh  petals 
of  roses,  jessamine,  clove-carnations  or  pinks,  and  violets. 
Take  an  upright  glass  jar,  such  as  is  used  by  confectioners 
to  display  sweets  in  their  windows.  At  the  bottom  of 
the  jar  put  a  layer  of  mixed  petals ;  then  a  thin  layer  of 
pounded  lump-sugar;  then  another  layer  of  petals,  and 
so  on,  till  the  jar  is  full,  pressing  all  down  tight. 

Then  cover  the  jar  dose,  and  set  in  the  sun  for  a 
week.  Then  empty  its  contents  into  a  woollen  cloth; 
squeeze  out  the  liquid  by  means  of  a  press,  and  bottle  it 
in  phials  for  use,  corking  them  tightly. 


Essence  of  Ginger.  A  &vourite  Stomachic.  Mix 
four  ounces  of  powdered  ginger  with  a  quart  of  gin. 
Let  it  stand  for  ten  days,  and  shake  it  up  every  day. 

Dose :  A  teaspoonful  in  a  glass  of  cold  water;  to  be 


668  WRINKLES. 

oocasionallj  taken  as  a  relief  for  flatulence,  or  to  aid 
slow  digestion. 

Curry  Powdery  Home-Madey  may  be  obtained  by 
reducing  to  powder  the  following  ingredients : 

Three  ounces  of  coriander  seed,  three  ounces  of 
turmeric ;  one  ounce  each  of  ginger,  mustard,  and  black 
pepper ;  half  an  ounce  of  lesser-cardamums ;  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  each  of  cayenne  pepper  and  cummin-seed. 
Pound  and  mix  these  together  thoroughly,  and  keep 
them  in  a  well-stopped  bottle  such  as  the  druggists  use. 

N.B.  Those  who  are  fond  of  curry-flavoured  sauces, 
may  steep  three  ounces  of  the  above  Powder  for  ten  days 
in  a  quart  of  white  wine  or  vinegar,  shaking  the  mixture 
now  and  then.  They  will  thus  get  a  liquor  impregnated 
with  the  essences  contained  in  the  Powder,  which  they 
can  use  to  flavour  any  sauce  they  please. 


Angh-Indian  Mixed  Pickle.  Prepare  your  pickle- 
liquor  thus :  to  six  pinis  of  vinegar  put  half  a  pound  of 
salt,  two  ounces  of  bruised  ginger,  two  ounces  of  mustard- 
seed,  one  ounce  of  mace,  half  a  pound  of  shallots,  a 
dessert-spoonfol  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  stick  of  horse- 
radish sliced. 

Boil  the  above  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ; 
then  put  it  into  your  jars,  and  cover  down  close.  When 
cold,'™  «.,  L,'in  f»  pickli^  .., g^  ft*  „ 
vegetable  you  please.  Only  be  careful  to  cut  or  gather 
them  when  dri/^  and  to  put  them  fresh  into  the  vinegar 
as  they  come  in  season. 


WBINKLEB.  669 

Pickled  OnumSj  White.  Select  small,  round  onions ; 
peel  off  their  brown  outside  skin. 

Have  ready  a  stew-pan  of  boiling  salt-and-water ; 
throw  into  it  just  as  many  onions  as  will  cover  the 
surface  of  the  water.  When  well  scalded,  and  trans- 
parent or  clear  outside,  take  them  up  as  quickly  as 
possible ;  lay  them  on  a  dry  doth ;  cover  them  dose,  and 
proceed  to  scald  more. 

When  cold,  put  them  into  jars  or  bottles,  throwing 
in  with  them  a  few  peppercorns.  Pour  over  them  hot 
(not  boiling)  white-wine  vinegar.  When  cold,  stop  them 
down  and  cover  close. 

Drench  Beansy  Pickled.  Gather  them  before  they 
are  stringy,  without  taking  off  the  stalk-end.  Put  them 
into  strong  brine  until  they  turn  yellow;  then  drain 
them  on  a  doth.  Put  them  into  ajar  by  the  fire,  and 
pour  boiling  water  over  them,  preventing  the  escape  of 
the  steam.  By  repeating  this  for  four  days,  they  will 
turn  green  again.  Then  put  them  into  the  pickle-jar, 
where  they  are  to  remain ;  throw  in  a  few  peppercorns 
and  a  little  bruised  ginger,  and  pour  hot  vinegar  over 
them. 

So-called  Samphire  (Glasswort)  is  pickled  in  the 
same  way. 

To  Preserve  Furs  from  Moths  during  Summer  (Amer- 
ican). Procure  a  whisky-barrel,  perfectly  tight ;  place 
it  in  a  dry  garret ;  dust  it  out,  but  do  not  wet  ii  Shake 
the  fiirs,  &c.,  well,  and  lay  them  in  the  sun,  or  before  a 


670  T7BINKUB& 

fire.  Then  pack  them  smoothly  in  the  barrel,  and  dose 
tighflj.  Yon  may  pat  half  an  onnoe  of  hergamotwith 
ihem,  to  overpower  the  smell  of  the  whisky  which  they 
will  contract  Camphor,  cedar-shavings,  snnff,  cloves, 
and  other  spices  and  volatile  and  essential  oils,  axe  pre- 
ventives against  the  attacks  of  insects,  which  cannot 
exist  in  a  confined  space  that  is  filled  with  a  poisoned 
atmosphere. 

Bome-Made  Cheese.  The  following  are  receipts,  firom 
the  Gardeners*  Chronicle  and  Agricultural  GazetUy  for 
Cream  Cheese  and  Bath  Cheese, — ^the  one  a  rich,  and 
the  other  an  ordinary,  curd : 

Cream  Cheese.  Take  a  quart  of  cream,  or,  if  not 
desired  very  rich,  add  thereto  one  pint  of  new  milk ; 
warm  it  in  hot  water,  till  it  is  about  the  heat  of  milk 
from  the  cow;  add  rennet  (a  table-spoonful);  let  it  stand 
tiU  thick ;  then  break  it  slightly  with  a  spoon,  and  place 
it  in  the  firame,  in  which  you  have  previously  put  a  fine 
canvas  cloth ;  press  it  slightly  with  a  weight;  let  it  stand  a 
few  hours ;  then  put  a  finer  cloth  in  the  frame,  and  shift  the 
cheese  into  it  A  litde  powdered  salt  may  be  sprinkled 
over  the  doth.     It  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  day  or  two. 

Both  Cheese.  To  one  gallon  of  new  milk  add  two 
quarts  of  cold  spring,  water,  and  rennet  sufficient  to  turn 
it  (not  hard).  Take  it  gently  out  with  the  skimming- 
dish,  and  lay  it  in  the  vat  until  fulL  Put  a  weight  upon 
it,  and  apply  dry  cloths  for  a  day  or  two  when  turned 
out  on  a  plate.  Cover  it  with  another  plate,  and  torn  it 
occasionally.    It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  about  a  fortnight 


WBINKLEB.  671 

To  Bottle  Wine,  Before  you  bottle  wine,  make  sure 
that  it  is  very  clear,  by  putting  a  small  quantity  in  a 
glass,  and  then  placing  it  between  your  eye  and  the 
light  If  it  is  not  irreproachably  transparent,  you  must 
wait  until  it  has  become  so;  and,  if  you  cannot  attain 
that  result,  you  must  transfer  the  wine  to  a  fresh,  clean 
cask,  fine  it  again  with  white  of  egg ;  when,  after  a 
certain  time,  it  will  indubitably  have  acquired  the  re- 
quisite limpidity.  The  shells  and  whites  of  eight  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  mixed  with  the  wine  by  means  of 
a  stick,  are  sufficient  to  fine-  a  cask  containing  three 
hundred  bottles. 

Cold  weather  is  the  best  for  bottling  wine.  At  all 
times  of  the  year  it  is  desirable  to  avoid  stormy  weather, 
and  winds  blowing  from  the  south  and  the  west. 

The  bottles  should  have  been  most  careftdly  rinsed ; 
for  the  slightest  negligence  in  this  particular  may  cause 
Texatious  consequences.  Shot,  or  small  nails,  are  usually 
•employed  in  this  operation ;  but  are  far  from  suitable  for 
the  purpose.  A  shot  or  a  noil  often  remains  fixed  between 
the  side  of  the  bottle  and  the  internal  swelling.  The 
lead  which  thus  remains  in  contact  with  the  wine  may, 
in  certain  cases,  become  a  source  of  real  poisoning.  The 
iron  is  not  injurious  to  health,  but  it  spoils  the  colour  of 
red  wines,  and  blackens  white  wines.  It  is,  therefore, 
much  more  prudent  to  employ  river-gravel,  which  cleans 
the  bottles  perfecdy,  and  a  few  grains  of  which,  if  left  in 
the  bottle,  produce  no  inconvenience. 

The  choice  of  corks  is  extremely  important  Some 
corks  are  very  porous,  and,  although  they  stop  the  bottle 


672  WBimcLES. 

well  in  appearance,  they  allow  the  wine  to  evapoiate. 
Hard  and  drj  oorks  have  this  effect  The  best  corks  are 
those  which  are  fine-grained,  soft,  yielding  to  the  finger, 
and  showing  the  fewest  pores  possible. 

To  insert  the  cock,  yon  tap  the  cask  abont  an  inch 
and  a  half  above  the  rim.  As  soon  as  a  few  drops  of  the 
liquid  begin  to  issue,  you  withdraw  the  augur,  and  drire 
in  the  cock  by  hand,  avoiding  any  shock  which  might 
disturb  the  lees.  As  you  cannot  always  manage  that,  it 
is  a  good  plan  to  put  the  tap  in  its  place  the  day  before 
bottling  the  wine.  Beneath  it,  you  set  a  salad-bowl  or 
basin,  to  catch  the  wine  which  escapes  when  the  cock 
is  not  turned  back  in  time,  and  which  runs  over  when  a 
bottle  is  filled  too  full.  The  bottle  applied  to  the  tap  to 
be  filled  ought  to  be  held  in  a  slanting  position,  to 
prevent  the  wine  from  forming  a  firoth,  which  woujd 
hinder  its  being  properly  filled. 

The  bottles  should  be  perfectly  corked  as  fisist  as  they 
are  filled.  The  cork  is  driven  in  with  the  bat  till  it 
projects  only  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  or  less. 

When  the  wine  nearly  ceases  to  flow  by  the  tap,  the 
cask  is  tilted  behind,  and  kept  in  a  position  sloping  for- 
wards by  means  of  a  wooden  wedge.  The  operation 
must  be  done  steadily,  and  without  shaking,  to  avoid 
disturbing  the  lees.  But  after  the  cask  is  once  tilted, 
the  wine  left  in  it  must  be  drawn  immediately,  whether 
it  be  clear  or  thick.  The  bottles  of  thick  wine  should  be 
set  on  one  side,  upright,  to  settle,  when  they  may  be 
decanted  into  other  bottles,  and  definitely  corked. 

In  order  that  the'  bottles  may  pile  well,  they  ought. 


WBINKLBS.  673 

as  far  as  possible^  to  be  of  the  same  size  and  shape.  If 
they  are  of  different  sorts,  they  must  be  ranged  in  classes 
of  the  same  dimensions. 

After  levelling  the  sand  or  the  earth  of  the  cellar 
where  they  are  to  be  packed,  yon  place  the  first  row, 
leaving  an  interval  of  half  an  inch  between  each  bottle ; 
and  as  they  onght  to  lie  horizontally,  their  necks  are 
raised  by  placing  laths  beneath  them ;  then  you  place  a 
lath  beneath  the  necks  and  another  on  the  bodies  of  the 
bottles  of  the  first  row ;  and  yon  place  the  second  row 
in  an  opposite  direction  to  the  first.  The  pile  ought 
scarcely  to  be  built  to  a  greater  height  than  three  feet,, 
unless  the  bottles  are  very  strong,  and  exactly  similar  in 
size  and  shape. 

The  corks  should  be  covered  with  rosin,  to  prevent 
them  from  moulding  and  from  being  eaten  by  the  insects 
with  which  many  cellars  abound.  An  excellent  prepara- 
tion for  sealing  bottles  is,  two  pounds  of  rosin  mixed 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  yellow  bees'-wax,  or  a 
couple  of  ounces  of  tallow,  to  prevent  its  being  too 
brittle.  It  may  be  coloured  with  red  lead,  red  ochre, 
ivoiy  black,  or  any  other  ingredient.  Melt  and  mix  it 
well  in  an  earthen  vessel  over  a  gentle  fire ;  then  let  it 
cool  so  as  to  be  only  just  liquid,  when  you  may  dip  the 
necks  of  the  bottles  in  it  up  to  the  rim  roimd  the  neck, 
Leave  the  bottles  standing  upright  until  the  wax  is 
perfectly  cold,  when  they  may  be  piled  in  their  places. 
Great  caution  is  requisite  not  to  dip  the  bottles  in  the 
wax  until  it  has  cooled  sufficiently ;  for  if  too  hot,  it 
will  cause  the  necks  of  the  bottles  to  Bplit  and  burst 

XX 


674 

It  18  better  to  dress  a  small  qnaniiiy  of  salad  in 
a  large  bowl,  tban  a  large  qnantitjr  in  a  little  bowL 
In  the  latter  case,  it  is  difficolt  to  make  the  mixture 
effectoallj  without  spilling  some  of  the  contents ;  beades 
which,  economy  suggests  that  no  more  salad  should  be 
dressed  at  a  time  than  is  likelj  to  be  eaten  at  that  meaL 


Accidents  have  happened  in  consequence  of  FooFs 
Parsley,  or  the  Lesser  Hemlock  (a  poisonous  plant), 
Iiaving  been  mistaken  fo|r  True  Parsley.  Such  a 
dangerous  error,  one  would  think,  could  only  result 
from  extreme  carelessness  or  utter  ignorance;  since, 
although  there  is  a  resemblance  between  the  outward 
aspect  of  the  plants,  their  smell  is  completely  different 
The  mistake,  however,  may  be  avoided  with  certainty  by 
using  only  curled  or  double  parsley y  which  is  equally  well 
flavoured,  more  ornamental  as  garnishing,  and  just  as 
easy  to  cultivate  as  the  common  plain-leaved  sort,  which 
we  owe  to  the  rocky  dells  of  Sardinia. 


People  have  been  poisoned  by  eating  the  scraped  root 
of  Monk's-hood,  which  was  served  to  them  instead  of 
horse-radish.  When  the  two  plants  are  in  a  growing 
state,  it  is  scarcely  possible  to  confound  them;  but  when 
they  are  leafless  or  cut  down  in  winter,  a  very  negligent 
gardener's  help  might  be  capable  of  substituting  one  for 
the  other.  Extirpate  Monk's-hood,  therefore,  from  your 
garden.  Its  only  recommendation  is,  that  it  is  an  old- 
fashioned  cottage-garden  flower.     But  its  colouring  is 


WBmKLES.  675 

dull  and  lurid,  and  there  is  something  forbidding  in  its 
aspect  It  is  easy,  now,  to  supply  its  place  with  hundreds 
of  beautiful,  hardy,  and  innocent  plants. 


In  the  receipts  which  some  Cook-Books  give  for 
Custard,  Ac,,  for  "laurel-leaf,"  read  "bay-leaf."  The 
first  is  poisonous,  containing  prussic  acid ;  the  latter  is 
simply  aromatic,  with  a  perfume  approaching  to  that  of 
cinnamon.  The  two  plants  are  quite  different,  and 
belong  even  to  different  Natural  Families.  The  so- 
called  Laurel  is  a  Cherry,  Cerasus  Lauro-Cerams ;  and 
its  cousin,  the  common  cherry,  contains  prussic  acid  in 
the  kernels  of  its  trmt 

The  Bay-tree,  Lauras  nobtlisy  is  a  Laurel,  and  is  a 
near  relation  te  the  Camphor-tree,  Lauras  Camphcra^ 
a  highly  useful  and  medicinal  plant.  The  confusion 
may  have  arisen  from  Laurier's  being  French  for 
bay-tree,  and  so  finding  its  way  into  translated  re- 
ceipts; but  to  avoid  all  error,  it  is  usually  spoken 
of  as  Laurier  a  Sauce^  or  Sauce-laurel,  whereas  the 
other  is  correctly  called  the  Laurier- Cerisey  or  Cherry- 
Laurel. 

Cherry-laurel  leaves  should  be  banished  fix)m  cook- 
ery, for  fear  of  the  results  of  an  over-dose.  True,  they 
are  used,  in  very  dmall  quantities,  with  no  perceptible 
evil  effect ;  but  so  may  arsenic  and  prussic  acid  be  taken 
(and  are  even  administered  medicinaUy)  in  doses  of 
extreme  minuteness.  Therefore,  we  repeat,  in  cookery, 
for  "  laurel-leaf,"  read  invariably,  "  bay-leaf." 


676  WBIKKLES. 

Mustard  Foot-Bath^  in  cases  o/Apopleayj  ^  Take 
care  tibat  the  water  be  not  too  hot  The  quantity  of 
gronnd  mustard  to  be  mixed  with  it  will  depend  on  iho 
orders  given  by  the  medical  attendant.  It  varies  firom 
a  qnarter  to  half  a  ponnd,  or  more,  for  an  ordinary- 
sized  foot-bath;  something  will  also  depend  on  the 
tenderness  or  hardness  of  the  patient's  skin.  Be 
cautions  not  to  keep  the  feet  in  too  long ;  when  tingling 
and  pricking  is  felt,  or,  in  cases  of  nnoonscionsness, 
when  the  skin  tnms  very  red,  it  is  time  to  remove  them, 
as  blistering  of  the  epidermis  must  be  avoided.  Great 
caution  is  advisable,  especially  as  the  foot-bath  can 
always  be  repeated. 

Mustard  PouUicey  or  Sinapism^  for  Sore  Throaty  or 
for  application  to  the  Feet  or  Legs.  Mix  mustard  with 
tepid  water ;  spread  it  thick  upon  a  doth,  and  apply  it 
to  the  part  affected,  until  sharp  tingling  is  felt,  and  the 
skin  is  well  reddened.  As  soon  as  that  occurs,  and 
before  the  epidermis  rises,  remove  the  poultice,  and 
swathe  the  part  with  flannel  or  with  soft,  thick,  warm 
linen.  Some  mix  the  mustard  with  vinegar,  to  increase 
its  strength ;  druggists  will  tell  them  that  they  do  just 
the  contrary,  and  lessen  its  efBeacy  instead. 


Bread  without  Yeast:  Question  and  Answer  (from 
the  Crardeners^  Chronicle  and  Agricultural  Gazette). 

To  every  half-quartern  of  flour,  add  one  teaspoonfiil 
of  carbonate  of  soda,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt 


WBINEUBS.  677 

Mix  all  together ;  then,  to  the  water  sufficient  to  make 
a  dongh,  add  half  a  teaspoonftd  of  tartaric  acid.  Pat 
into  the  oven  at  once.  This  makes  beaatiful,  sweet 
bread ;  but  the  question  is — ^Is  it  wholesome  ? — Tjaura. 
[Perfectly.] 

A&rated  Bread*  I  cannot  indorse  your  answer  to 
Laura.  The  bread  will  contain  tartrate  of  soda,  which  I 
admit  is  not  poisonous;  but  it  is  medicinal — slightly 
purgative  even:  and  no  medicinal  substance  ought  to 
be  employed  in  food,  except  in  cases  where  its  use  is 
indicated.  Muriatic  acid  neutralises  soda  as  well  as 
tartaric,  and  the  resulting  compound  is  only  common 
salt  I  have  made  such  bread ;  and  where  yeast  cannot 
be  got,  this  mode  of  making  it  is  vahiable. — S.  B. 


Hooping  Cough  mmplt/  and  quickly  Cured.  Let  the 
child  take,  morning,  noon,  and  night,  a  dose  of  finely 
ground  alum  mixed  in  a  emaU  quantity  of  powder 
sugar,  for  three  or  four  days.  The  dose  varies  from  one 
to  two  grains,  according  to  the  age  of  the  child,  and 
goes  on  gradually  increasing.  If  necessary  after  the 
fourth  day,  a  child  eight  years  old  must  take  seven 
grains  of  ground  alum  three  times  a  day.  Milk  diet 
must  be  abstained  from,  and  all  draughts  of  cold  air 
careftdly  avoided. 

For  a  Weak  CJiest.  The  Carrageen,  or  Irish  Moss, 
of  the  shops,  is  a  sea-weed,  Chondnts  crispuSf  which 
dwellers  near  a  xocky  coast  may  gather  for  themselves 


678  WBINKLES. 

in  abundance.  It  varies  greatlj  in  appearance,  attain- 
ing its  greatest  size  at  the  months  of  streams  wber& 
fresh  water,  and  the  matters  it  brings  with  it,  mingle 
with  the  sea.  Some  of  the  forms  which  it  assumes  are 
frequently  very  much  lobed  and  fringed  ;  notwithstand- 
ing which,  those  who  have  seen  it  onoe  will  have  little 
difficulty  in  recognising  it  again.  In  Harvey's  excellent 
Atlas  of  British  Sea-weedsj  two  varieties  are  given  at 
PI.  XLIY.  Fig.  202.  The  samples  sold  in  tho  shops  are 
mostly  bleached  or  colourless.  As  it  grows,  it  is  of  a 
doll,  brownish  red,  increasing  in  depth  with  age.  Spring 
and  summer  are  the  best  seasons  for  gathering  it 

When  fresh,  it  requires  several  careful  washings  and 
pickings  over,  separating  the  tufted  fronds  into  sprigs. 
Boil  it  down  (for  two  or  three  hours)  in  plain  water  to 
a  jelly ;  pass  it  through  a  cullender,  and  let  it  stand  to- 
settle.  Pour  it  off  from  the  impurities  at  the  bottom^, 
and  use  it  for  the  preparation  of  jellies  and  blancmanges,, 
exactly  as  if  it  were  isinglass. 

Carrageen  is  one  of  the  restoratives  which  require* 
faith  on  the  part  of  those  who  take  it  When  rendered 
as  nearly  insipid  as  possible  by  repeated  steeping  and 
washing  (in  which  case  much  of  its  virtue  may  be  also- 
washed  away),  it  still  retains  a  certain  flavour  of  the 
shore,  which  is  distasteful  to  some,  although  others  get 
to  like  it  by  use,  just  as  there  are  patients  who  become 
fond  of  cod-liver  oil.  A  course  of  Irish-moss  blanc- 
mange is  worth  while  continuing,  as  it  cannot  bo 
otherwise  than  good  for  constitutions  with  any  tendenejr 
to  scrofulous  disease. 


WBINKLES.  679 

Bed  DtdsBy  or  JDUlisk — Khodymenia  palmata  (Harvey's 
Atlas^  PI.  XLL  Figs.  189  and  190).  Another  Sea- 
weed, mostly  eaten  uncooked  as  a  salad,  no  doabt  with 
benefit  to  the  general  health. 

At  first  sight,  Harvey's  Synopsis  of  British  Sea- 
weeds tells  lis,  it  will  scarcely  be  supposed  that  the 
specimens  selected  for  the  illustration  of  this  species 
belong  to  the  same  plant ;  and  yet  these  figures  by  no 
means  exhibit  the  extreme  of  variation ;  for  there  are 
varieties  more  simple  than  the  one,  and  more  finely 
divided  than  the  other. 

When  such  varieties  are  seen  in  a  dried  state  in  the 
herbarium,  they  appear  so  different  that  one  may  anti- 
cipate much  difficulty  in  tracing  the  limits  of  the  species. 
But  on  the  shore,  the  collector  experiences  no  such 
difficulty.  If  he  has  once  seen  and  tasted  a  piece  of 
Dulse,  the  characters,  irrespective  of  form,  are  too  well 
marked  to  allow  of  his  puzzling  himself  with  mere 
variations  in  ontUne;  and,  what  is  very  remarkable, 
the  broad  and  the  slightly  divided  varieties  may  often 
be  found  growing  side  by  side  with  the  finely  cut  narrow 
ones. 

In  Ireland  and  Scotland,  this  plant  is  much  used 
by  the  poor,  as  a  relish  with  their  food.  It  is  commonly 
dried  in  its  unwashed  state,  and  eaten  raw,  the  flavour 
being  brought  out  by  long  chewing.  On  many  parts  of 
the  west  coast  of  Ireland,  it  forms  the  only  addition  to 
potatoes  in  the  meals  of  the  poorest  dass.  The  variety 
which  grows  on  mussel-shells  between  tide-marks  is 
preferred,  being  less  tough  than  the  other  forms ;  and 


680  WRINKLES. 

the  minute  mussel-shells  and  other  small  shell-fish  which 
adhere  to  its  folds  are  nowise  unpleasing  to  the  con- 
sumers of  this  simple  luxniy,  who  rather  seem  to  enjoy 
the  additional  goiU  imparted  by  the  crunched  mussels. 
In  the  Mediterranean,  this  plant  is  used  in  a  cooked 
form,  entering  into  ragoiits  and  made  dishes;  and  it 
forms  a  chief  ingredient  in  one  of  the  soups  recom- 
mended, under  the  name  of  St.  Patrick's  Soup,  by 
M.  Soyer  to  the  Irish  peasantry. 

Pepper  DttUey  Laurencia  pvinatifiday  has  often, 
though  not  invariably,  a  hot  and  biting  taste.  In 
Scotland  it  is  eaten  along  with  the  preceding,  and  in 
Iceland  is  used  instead  of  spice. 


Lavery  Ulva  Lactuca^  one  more  sea-plant,  sent  in 
pots  ready  prepared  fi-om  the  south-west  of  England, 
because  people  there  have  long  been  in  the  habit  of 
eating  it,  although  it  is  generally  distributed  round 
the  British  coast  When  so  procured,  all  that  is  needed 
is  to  heat  it  up  with  a  little  butter  and  orange  or  lemon- 
juice,  and  serve  it  as  an  accompaniment  to  roast  meat 
in  general,  and  mutton  in  particular.  When  received 
fresh,  as  gatliered  from  the  rocks,  it  requires  careful 
washing  in  sea-water,  and  a  long,  patient  stewing  in 
soft,  firesh  water. 

Soyer  says :  ^^  It  is  merely  washed,  boiled,  pulped, 
and  potted  by  the  fishermen's  wives.  It  is  considered 
wholesome ;  but  I  see  nothing  particular  in  it  that  can 
make  it  so,  utdesa  it  is  tJie  small  quantity  of  iodine  that  it 
cofitaine*     It  should  be  dressed  like  spinach,  and  sent  up 


WBIKKLES.  681 

very  hot"  His  "  unless"  settles  the  question.  At  one 
time,  doctors  could  discover  nothing  in  burnt  sponge 
that  should  make  it  cure  the  goitre,  unless  it  was  the 
iodine.  One  of  Soyer's  predecessors  (1807)  tells  us 
that  ^^  Laver  is  a  great  sweetener  of  the  blood.  It  is 
seldom  liked  at  first,  but  people  become  extremely  fond 
of  it  by  habit"  As  a  rule,  old-established  popular 
belief  in  these  matters  is  seldom  quite  without  founda- 
tion. 

For  a  Cough.  As  a  sort  of  preserve  to  suck  and 
keep  the  mouth  moist  from  time  to  time,  take  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  figs,  open  them,  put  a  small  sprig  of  rue 
inside  each  fig,  and  put  them  into  a  covered  jar.  Place 
a  thin  layer  of  powder  sugar,  or  some  brown  sugar- 
candy,  between  each  layer  of  figs,  and  pour  over  them 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rum,  and  the  same  quantity  of 
good  vinegar. 

Drink  for  a  Couglu  Into  four  pints  of  cold  water 
put  two  large  handfiils  of  good,  sweet,  and  new  bran, 
from  the  best  wheat  Boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  to  half 
the  quantity;  let  it  stand  to  settle,  then  strain  it,  and 
add  half  a  pound  of  the  best  raisins  opened  and  stoned. 
Sweeten  it  with  brown  sugar-candy,  and  take  it  when- 
ever the  cough  is  troublesome.  It  will  be  observed 
that  this  drink  contains  no  opiate  or  anodyne;  but, 
acting  merely  as  an  emulcient,  may  be  taken  without 
apprehension  as  often  as  the  irritating  fit  comes  on. 

Cough  Medicine.  As  much  finely  pounded  saltpetre 
as  will  lie  upon  a  sixpence  taken  every  morning  in  a 


682  WRINKLES. 

tea-spoonful  of  honej  will  be  found  to  relieTO  ibe 
breathing  greatly.  The  remedy  is  simple;  but  those 
who  have  tried  it  pronounce  it  to  be  a  very  good  one. 


ScupaiTs  JEau  SSdative — Sedative  Lotioru 

Liquid  Ammonia^  two  ounces ; 

Camphorated  Spirit  of  Wine,  one-third  of  an  ounce ; 

Coarse  kitchen  salt,  one  ounce ; 

Bain-water,  one  quart. 

Mix  separately  in  a  botde  the  camphorated  spirit 
with  the  liquid  ammonia;  stop  carefully,  shake  the 
bottle,  and  let  the  mixture  repose  an  instant 

In  another  vessel  dissolve  the  salt  in  the  water, 
adding  a  few  drops  of  liquid  ammonia.  When  the  salt 
is  completely  dissolved,  and  its  impurities  settled,  pour 
it  off  gently,  or  filter  it  through  filtering-paper.  Then 
pour  in  rapidly  the  mixed  spirit  and  ammonia;  oork 
it,  and  shake  all  weU  together.  It  is  then  ready  for 
use ;  and  must  always  be  kept  carefiiUy  stopped. 

This  lotion  is  excellent  to  apply  to  the  bites  of 
vipers  or  venomous  insects. 


RaspaiTa  Treatment  of  Chilblains.  Bathe  the  chil- 
blained  member  (foot  or  hand)  for  ten  minutes  in  a 
mixture  of  half  tepid  water  and  half  the  above  Sedative 
Lotion.  Then  wipe  the  member;  wrap  it  in  linen 
greased  with  camphorated  pommade  or  cerate,  taking 
care  to  keep  it  warm  in  large  and  thick  gloves  or  stock* 
ings. 


WBINEXES.  683 

K  ihe  chQblain  is  obstinate,  wash  it  frequently,  some- 
times with  camphorated  spirit,  sometimes  with  rain- 
water. 

If  the  skin  is  cracked,  cover  it  with  camphorated 
cerate  and  linen,  and  apply  a  bandage  soaked  in  sedative 
lotion  to  the  imbroken  parts. 

N.B.  The  cause  of  chilblains  is  the  influx  and  con- 
gestion of  the  blood  in  the  capillary  vessels  of  the  cuta- 
neous tissue,  under  the  influence  of  an  abrupt  transition 
from  warmth  to  severe  cold. 


HcupaiTs  Aromatised  Oyster  Liquor ^  or  Saline  Lemon^ 
ode. 

Water,  one  quart. 

Coarse  kitchen  salt,  one  ounce. 

Dissolve  the  salt  (which  will  be  a  good  handful)  in 
the  water.  When  the  impurities  of  the  salt  have  settled 
at  the  bottom,  and  the  water  has  become  limpid  again, 
decant  it  carefully  into  another  vessel,  and  add  to  it  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  It  is  then  an  aromatised  oyster  liquor ; 
L  tt»  !«.».->»  i.orf,  «  ..«»»,. 

An  excellent  vermifuge,  and  even  an  active  aperient, 
is,  morning  and  night,  to  chew  and  swallow  a  bit  of 
camphor  as  big  as  a  pea,  and  then  to  take  the  half  or 
the  quarter  of  a  tumbler  of  this  saline  lemonade. 

Coarse,  unrefined^salt  is  preferable,  for  the  purpose, 
on  account  of  the  iodides  and  bromides  which  it  contains. 


De  jRheims*  Paper^  for  Chilblains^  Buma^  Bruises^ 


684  WSIKKLES. 

This  receipt  alone  is  worth  the  price  of  the  book. 
The  reader,  after  trial  and  approbation,  may  testify  his 
gratitade,  bj  sending  a  nicety  made  sheet  or  two,  ad- 
dressed to  ns  at  the  Publisher's. 

Our  friend,  the  late  M.  Charles  De  Bheims,  of 
Calais,  who  gave  us  the  receipt,  was  a  man  of  great  ac- 
quirements, simple  manners,  and  cheerful  disposition ;  a 
good  linguist,  well  versed  in  the  physical  sciences,  with 
extensive  observation,  and  a  kindly  heart.  He  spent 
nine  years  as  ^^  Pharmacien"  with  Napoleon  I/s  army 
in  Spain,  and,  while  there,  often  amused  himself  with 
the  ignorance  and  superstition  of  the  people.  One  of 
his  freaks  was  to  walk  into  a  blacksmith^s  shop,  when 
crowded  with  gossips,  and  ask  for  a  red-hot  iron  at 
which  to  light  his  cigar.  On  a  glowing  bar  being  pre- 
sented to  him,  he  would  complain  that  it  was  too  cool ; 
which  he  proved  by  licking  it  with  his  tongue,  and  beg- 
ging them  to  heat  it  a  little  hotter  I  Of  course  he  passed 
for  a  sorcerer  of  the  blackest  species ;  and  the  Inquisi- 
tion, doubtless,  would  have  laid  hands  upon  him,  only 
that  they  Ivad  to  come  and  take  him. 

We  know  now  how  and  why  M.  De  Bheims  was  able 
to  lick  a  red-hot  poker  with  impunity;  but,  at  that 
time,  neither  M.  Boutigny  had  written  his  treatise  on 
the  Spheroidal  State  of  Matter,  nor  Dr.  l^dall  his 
masterly  Heat  considered  as  a  Mode  of  Motion. 

The  invention  of  the  Paper  is  due  to  observations 
made  by  M.  De  Bheims'  father  of  the  curative  effects 
of  pepper,  in  case  of  wounds  or  other  injuiy. 

Make    a    strong    tincture    of  capsicum -pods    by 


WBIKELES.  685 

steeping  them  for  several  days,  in  a  warm  place,  in 
twice  their  weight  of  rectified  spirits  of  wine. 

Dissolve  gom-arabic  in  water  to  about  the  con- 
sistency of  treacle.  Add  to  this  an  equal  quantity  of 
the  tincture,  stirring  it  together  with  a  small  brush  or 
a  large  camePs  hair  pencil,  until  they  are  well  in- 
corporated.    The  mixture  will  be  cloudy  and  opaque. 

Take  sheets  of  silk  or  tissue-paper ;  give  them  with 
the  brush  a  coat  of  the  mixture ;  let  them  dry,  and  then 
give  another.  Let  that  dry,  and,  if  the  surface  is 
shining,  there  is  enough  of  the  peppered  gum  ;  if  not, 
give  a  third  coat. 

This  Paper,  applied  in  the  same  way  as  Court 
Plaister  to  chilblains  that  are  not  hrokerij  and  lurma  that 
are  not  blisteredy  speedily  relieves  the  itching  and  the 
pain.  It  acts  like  a  charm,  and  effects  a  rapid  cure. 
The  same  with  cuts  and  discoloured  bruises.  It  likewise 
allays  rheumatic  pains  in  the  joints.  Its  great  value  is 
that,  besides  acting  as  ordinary  sticking-plaister,  it 
abates  suffering  and  hastens  the  process  of  hosting.  So 
great  is  our  experience  of  its  usefulness,  that  we  never 
stir  without  ii^when  we  happen  to  have  it 

In  the  tropical  countries  whence  we  procure  capsi- 
cums, and  where  their  culture  is  of  the  easiest,  they  are 
both  abundantly  used  as  an  article  of  diet,  and  also 
employed  as  external  tonics  and  stimidants.  Another 
kind  of  pepper  is  used  by  Ethiopian  negroes  to  cure  the 
tooth-ache.  Slave-masters  in  the  Indian  Islands  use 
decoction  of  the  true  Guinea  pepper  to  wash  the  backs 
of  negroes  who  have  been  flayed  with  the  whip,  not  as  an 


686  WRINKLES. 

additional  pnnishment  or  torture,  bat  to  prevent  Hieir 
wounds  fix>m  gangrening.  West-Indian  doctors  em- 
ploj  the  leaves  of  the  Jamaica  pepper-tree  to  make  baths 
for  the  legs  of  dropsical  patients,  and  in  ^mentations 
for  limbs  attacked  by  paralysis. 


From  Dr.  Edward  Smith^a  Handbills  (/or  Distribution 
amongst  the  Poor)y  indicating  the  Cheapest  and  Best  Ends 
of  Food, 

Select  households  or  seconds  bread  or  flour. 

Do  not  eat  bread  when  it  is  new ;  but  keep  bakers* 
bread  one  day,  and  home-made  bread  three  days.  Do 
not  keep  it  too  dry,  but  cover  it  up  in  an  earthen  pan. 
When  it  has  become  dry,  make  it  into  puddings  or  add 
it  to  broth. 

New  milk  is  heUer  food  than  skim  milL  Skim  milk 
is  cheaper  food  than  new  milk ;  and,  when  used  for  a 
pudding,  you  may  make  it  as  good  as  new  milk  by 
adding  a  littie  suet — say  from  a  quarter  to  half  an 
ounce — to  each  pint. 

Pease  are  very  strong  food  for  both  grown  people 
and  children,  and  should  be  eaten  once  or  twice  a  week 
all  the  year  round.  If  you  bake  your  bread  at  home, 
add  sometimes  one  pound  of  pea-meal  to  the  stone  of 
flour,  and  it  will  make  a  more  nutritious  bread. 

When  potatoes  are  grown  by  the  labourer,  they  cost 
only  the  rent  of  the  land,  the  manure,  and  tiie  seed, 
and  are  therefore  very  cheap  food;  but  when  they 
are  bought,  they  are  veiy  dear  food — much  dearer  than 


WRINKLES.  687 

flour.  Do  not  peel  them  before  boiling,  unless  you 
have  a  pig  to  eat  the  peel;  but  boil  them  first,  and 
peel  them  as  you  eat  them. 

Fats  of  some  kind  are  most  necessary  to  health,  and 
particularly  for  growing  children  and  youths  who  can- 
not obtain  sufficient  new  milk.  Do  not  buy  much 
butter  or  lard.  Fresh  butter  is  a  very  dear  food.  If 
you  can  buy  the  fiit  which  butchers  cut  off  the  loin  and 
neck  of  mutton  at  fourpence  or  fivepence  per  pound, 
do  so.  Bender  it  down,  or  cut  it  into  bits  and  add  it 
to  puddings,  or  fiy  the  vegetables  with  it.  Obtain  as 
much  dripping  as  possible  from  your  richer  neighbours 
— ^who  will  give  away  (not  allow  to  be  wasted)  what  is 
not  wanted  for  their  own  household  requirements. 

Never  take  tea  without  real  food,  as  bread;  and 
never  regard  tea  as  food.  When  made  very  weak,  it  is 
only  useful  from  the  warm  water,  sugar,  and  milk  which 
it  contains :  yet  one  ounce  of  tea  costs  as  much  as  several 
pints  of  good,  sweet  skim  milk. 


^^  Although  starch  is  insoluble  in  water,  and  is  thus 
unfit  for  digestion,  it  is  easily  converted  into  sugar.  All 
ferments  convert  it  into  sugar.  The  saliva  secreted  in 
the  mouth  contains  a  ferment  known  by  the  name  of 
mlivmy  which  immediately  converts  starch  into  sugar. 
Hence,  when  we  take  starch  into  our  mouths,  it  is  con- 
verted into  sugar ;  and  it  is  in  the  form  of  sugar,  which 
is  soluble  in  water,  that  it  is  carried  into  the  blood.  On 
this  account,  it  is  important,  in  eating  food  containing 


688  WBINELES* 

starchy  that  It  should  be  retained  a  short  time  in  the 
mouthy  in  order  that  it  may  be  well  mixed  with  saliva. 
The  practice  of  making  babies  swallow  starch-food 
hastily  is  injurious,  as  the  starch  is  thus  preyented  finom 
being  converted  into  sugar,  is  not  therefore  digested, 
dogs  the  stomach  and  bowels,  and  frequentiy  produces 
disease." — Dr.  Lankester's  "  Good  Foodj''  p.  32. 


'^Fat  is  so  essential  to  the  maintenance  of  healthy 
nutrition,  that  the  quantity  contained  in  the  daOy  food 
cannot  be  much  reduced  without  the  greatest  risk.  The 
importance  of  fat  in  nutrition  should  be  studiously  borne 
in  mind  by  those  who  construct  diets  for  the  poor,  for 
public  institutions,  or  for  the  treatment  of  obesiiy, 
diabetes,  fatiy  degeneration,  dyspepsia,  and  the  like." — 
Dr,  DdbelVs  "  Manual  of  Diet  and  Ryvmofu*^ 

^^  A  healthy  man,  weighing  154  pounds,  contains  in 
his  body  twelve  pounds  of  fat.  This  constitutes  more 
than  a  thirteenth  part,  by  weight,  of  his  body.  When 
this  proportion  is  not  maintained,  the  body  gets  thin ; 
and  this  is  characteristic  of  some  of  the  most  dangerous 
diseases  to  which  the  human  body  is  subject  The  loss 
of  fat  is  especially  seen  in  that  commonly  fatal  disease, 
consumption ;  and  one  of  the  most  effectual  methods  of 
treating  this  fatal  disease  is  the  administration  of  fatiy 
articles  of  food.  One  of  the  most  readily  appropriated 
oils  is  cod-liver  oil,  and  this  substance  is  consumed 
throughout  the  world  in  prodigious  quantities  as  a 
remedy  in  consumption,  scrofula,  and  allied  diseases. 


WBIKELXS.  689 

(Hher  forms  of  fisitty  food  may  be  saooessfully  taken 
where  ood-liver  oil  is  objected  to,  or  caxmot  be  pro- 
eared.  Thus,  cream  may  be  given  with  great  advantage 
to  children,  and  the  diet  of  scrofidous  children  and  con- 
fenmptive  persons  may  be  always  improved  by  the 
addition  of  cream  cheese." — Dr.  Lankester^s  '^  Good 
Food;'  p.  39. 

'^  A  wholesome  receipt  for  a  stout  person  is,  Eat  no 
butter  at  break&st,  and  no  bread  at  dinner.'' — Dr.  Lan- 
hester's  «  Good  Food^'  p.  41. 


YY 


690  BILLS  OF  FABE. 


XXL 

BILLS  OF  PARE. 

WITH  REASONS  FOB  THEM. 

Etebt  repast,  however  £ragal,  has  neoessarilj  its  Bill 
of  Fare,  simple  or  complicated,  written  or  miwritten ; 
that  is,  a  decision  must  be  made  as  to  what  food  is 
intended  to  be  served,  and  orders  in  accordance  given ; 
for  which  orders,  reasons  will  exist 

The  most  elementary,  thongh  not  flie  least  important, 
Bills  of  Fare,  are  those  in  which  the  sick-room  is  con- 
cerned ;  when,  the  crisis  of  an  illness  being  past,  the 
means  of  restoring  strength  are  sought,  with  as  KtUe 
exertion  of  digestive  power  as  possible.  These  more 
particularly  belong  to  the  Doctor  and  the  Nurse,  who 
will  often  undertake  to  prepare  herself  the  nutriment 
she  has  thus  to  administer.  As  aids  to  her  memory  and 
suggestive  hints,  the  preceding  pages  will  be  found  to 
contain  an  ample  choice  of  light  things  for  the  com- 
position of  invalid  rnenus  ;  to  which  we  will  add  a  few 
words  here. 

First,  there  is  the  Beef-Tea  and  Essence-of-Meat 
question  to  consider. 

Beef'Tea^  A.  Take  one  pound  of  gravy  beef,  and 
cut  away  every  particle  of  fat  Mince  the  beef  with  a 
chopping-knife,  and  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with 


BILLS  OF  FABB.  691 

three-qnarterB  of  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Press  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon  till  it  boils.  Add  a  salt-spoon  of  salt,  and 
let  it  simmer  gentlj  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  then  pour 
the  tea  from  the  beef,  but  do  not  strain  it,  and  serve  with 
dry  toast,  or  rice  boiled  lightly,  as  for  curry.  My  nephew, 
Dr.  Priestly,  says  that  beef-tea  shoidd  not  be  too  clear; 
a  portion  of  the  fibre  he  assumes  to  be  very  advantageous 
and  nutritive. — Mrs.  W,  H,  W. 

Dr.  DdbeWe  Beef-Tea.  "  Beef  (rump-steak,  minced), 
1  lb. ;  cold  water,  1  lb.  Macerate  two  hours  at  a 
temperature  not  exceeding  ISO"*  Fahrenheit:  to  yield 
one  pint  of  beef-tea." 

Dr.  Lankester^e  Beef-'Tea.  "  It  is  one  peculiarity  of 
albuminous  food,  that  it  digests  more  easily  before  cook- 
ing than  after ;  oysters,  although  eaten  alive  and  raw, 
are  found  to  digest  very  easily.  The  longer  albumen  is 
cooked,  the  more  indigestible  does  it  become.  Thus,  in 
making  beef-tea,  it  becomes  important  to  prevent  the 
albumen  of  the  blood  from  coagulating.  The  beef  should 
therefore  be  sliced,  put  into  cold  water  for  an  hour  or 
two,  then  squeezed  and  removed,  and  heated  up  to  the 
point  at  which  it  is  pleasant  to  drink." 

Dr.  Edward  Smith,  in  his  Practical  Dietary ^  demon- 
strates, with  irresistible  logic,  the  small  dietetic  value  of 
Essences  or  Extracts  of  Meats.  They  are  prepared  from 
fi*e8h  meat,  in  such  a  manner  that  the  fibre  and  the  fat 
are  rejected,  and  only  the  osmazome  (or  flavouring 
property),  certain  salts,  and  a  very  small  quantity  of 
albumine,  remain.  In  consequence  of  the  presence  of 
the  first-mentioned  substance,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  the 


692 


BlIXS  OF  FABE. 


Essence  about  a  pint  of  soup  maj  be  made,  which,  although 
thin  to  the  palate,  is  as  foil  of  the  fioaxnar  of  meat  as 
when  beef-tea  is  prepared  at  home.  Hie  salts  are  not 
perceptible  to  the  senses;  but  they  consist  in  part  oS. 
phosphates,  and  are  very  valuable.  The  albumine  is 
necessarily  in  very  small  quantity,  £rom  the  small  amount 
of  the  extract  of  meat  which  is  used. 

Ifow,  no  eombinaticm,  of  nutritive  elements  can  be 
offered  to  the  body  in  a  form  more  concentrated  than  its 
own  flesh ;  and  the  flesh  of  animals  is  almost  identical  in 
composition  with  our  own.  It  is  true  that  flesh  consists 
of  water  to  the  extent  of  77  per  cent,  and  that  only  23 
per  cent  of  the  whole  is  nutritive  material ;  but  the  solid 
elements  cannot  be  obtained  in  a  nutritive  form  without 
water ;  neither  could  they  be  digested  in  a  solid  state. 
But  it  is  aflirmed  fhat  one  ounce  of  the  Essence,  derived 
from  thirty  ounces  of  beef,  nevertheless  contains  the 
nutritive  parte  of  those  thirty  ounces. 

Can  this  be  so  ?  asks  Dr.  Smith.  A  large  amount  of 
fibre,  with  fibrine,  gelatine,  fat,  and  some  albumine,  are 
rejected ;  and  it  is  affirmed  that  the  former  is  not  nutri- 
tious, because  dogs  fed  exclusively  upon  it  do  not  live  I 
The  fallacy  of  this  is,  fortunately,  as  obvious  as  it  is 
serious.  That  fibre  is  digestible,  is  proved  by  the  fiict 
that,  in  fresh  meat,  nearly  all  of  it  is  digested ;  that  it  is 
highly  nutritive,  is  proved  by  its  chemical  composition. 
Hence,  to  throw  away  this  material  is  a  folly  of  the 
grossest  kind.  That  it  will  not  aUme  support  life  is 
certain,  in  consequence  of  the  fact  that  salts — necessary 
to  life — and  fat— highly  important  to  life— *have  been  re- 


BILLS  OF  FABE.  693 

moved ;  but  this  does  not  in  the  least  prove  that  it  is  not 
of  great  value  as  a  part  of  our  dietary.  It  was  dearly 
shown  in  our  opening  chapter  that  a  varied  alimentation 
is  indispensable  to  health. 

As  fibre  and  fat  constitute  by  far  the  greater  propor- 
tion of  the  solid  parts  of  flesh,  it  follows  that  the  so-called 
Essences  contain  so  small  a  proportion  of  the  nutritive 
parts  of  flesh,  that  they  can  scarcely  be  regarded  as 
nutrient  foods.  When  one  teaspoonful  of  the  essence  or 
extract  has  been  dissolved  in  about  a  pint  of  hot  water, 
and  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  it  forms  an  agreeable 
and  stimulating  food ;  and  in  this  respect,  as  weU  as  in 
the  small  quantity  of  nutriment  which  it  ofiers,  it  must 
be  ranked  no  higher  than  tea  or  cofiee.  It  may  be 
advantageously  thickened  with  a  little  sago ;  vermicelli, 
maccaroni,  and  other  Italian  pastes,  are  also  4igreeable 
and  useful  additions. 

For  persons  in  health,  it  is  manifestly  better  that  the 
housewife  should  make  beef-tea  firom  shins  of  beef  (so  as 
to  obtain  much  gelatine),  or  from  gravy-beef;  and  should 
serve  up  the  solid  part,  as  food,  at  the  same  meal.  Our 
Continental  neighbours  eat  their  Jxmili  and  potage  at  ^ 
same  repast;  and  so  should  we.  The  great  value  of 
Liebig's  essence  of  meat  consists  in  its  readiness  in  emer^ 
gendes  during  illness.  It  is  also  useful  to  the  traveUer; 
since  it  occupies  a  very  small  space,  and,  with  hot  water, 
he  may  at  any  time  prepare  a  basin  of  soup  in  two 
minutes,  which  will  be  more  useful  to  liim  than  any  other 
fluid.  It  is  particularly  suited  to  those  who  abstain  from 
intoxicating  drinks. 


694  BILLS  OF  FABE. 

Oatmeal  GrueL  Aooording  to  the  ihicknesB 
mb  smooth  in  a  basin  one  or  two  table-spoonfiils  of  oat- 
meal, with  three  of  water.  Stir,  by  d^rees,  into  this  a 
pint  of  boiling  water ;  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  sanoqmn, 
and  boil  ten  minates,  stirring  all  the  while.  Then  strain 
it  through  a  cullender  into  the  basin  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served. 

Gruel  thus  made  with  milk  is  more  nutritious; 
seasoned  with  salt  and  butter,  it  is  less  insipid.  With 
the  medical  man's  permission,  a  dessert- spoonful  of 
brandy,  or  a  table-spoonful  of  wine,  may  be  added. 

Gruel  made  firom  Oaten  Groats  requires  more  ^vat^, 
and  takes  longer  boiling.  When  ready,  the  groats  may 
be  either  strained  away,  or  eaten,  if  liked,  together  with 
the  gruel ;  in  which  latter  case,  they  will  help  to  give 
support 

N.B.  The  nutritive  properties  of  oatmeal  gruel  ought 
to  be  more  widely  known  than  they  are.  Although  the 
Scotch  bothy  system  of  diet  will  never  be  adopted  in 
England,  it  is  yet  advisable  to  insist  on  the  fact  that  the 
regimen  of  oatmeal  and  milk  has  produced  some  of  the 
finest  specimens  of  humanity.  General  Mackenzie  used 
to  be  fond  of  relating  how  he  became  acquainted  with  the 
finest  man  in  the  Guards.  He  saw  him  breaking  stones 
by  the  side  of  the  road ;  and,  struck  with  his  application, 
as  well  as  his  symmetry,  he  questioned  him  as  to  his 
manner  of  living.  The  answer  was :  ^^  Porridge  for 
breakfast,  porridge  for  dinner,  and  porridge  for  supper." 
The  wonderful  endurance  of  the  Scotch  regiments  when 
on  foreign  service — who,  we  are  told,  take  a  little  raw 


BILLS  OF  FABE.  695 

oatmeal  from  their  meal-bag,  and  stir  it  up  with  water 
from  the  brook  or  pond — is  another  proof  of  the  value  of 
this  grain.  Indeed,  we  may  assert,  no  other  food  is  to 
be  found  so  capable  of  sustaining  health  and  strength  as 
oatmeal  and  milk :  the  latter  containing  all  that  is  re- 
quired, even  to  the  water  and  salts ;  and  the  former  being 
so  nioelj  balanced,  as  regards  its  carbonaceous  and  nitro- 
genous  matter,  as  to  require  very  little  addition,  being 
102  flesh-formers,  and  68  fat-  and  heat-formers,  or 
very  nearly  what  science  teaches  us  is  wanted  for  wear 
and  tear,  besides  leaving  a  small  portion  of  fiit  to  be 
deposited  <against  emergencies  of  exposure  to  cold. 


Gamey  Dressed  far  an  Invalid,  Take  the  plump  breast 
of  a  fresh  partridge ;  remove  the  skin,  with  any  fibres  or 
sinews,  and  mince  it  very  fine.  Put  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  two  or  three  table-spoonfuls  of  any  very  light  stock, 
or  cold  water,  and  a  little  salt  Stir  it,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  half  an  hour ;  serve  hoi 

Hare,  done  in  the  same  way,  will  be  foimd  equally 
light  and  easy  of  digestion. — Mrs.  W.  H.  W. 


As  the  curd  in  Wine  Whey  is  indigestible,  for  invalids 
it  should  be  strained  through  muslin,  or  a  fine  milk-sieve. 


Panada.  Break  into  a  saucepan,  cruinb  of  bread  a 
little  larger  than  an  egg ;  cover  it  with  water,  milk-and- 
water,  or  broth;  boil  it  five  minutes,  stirring  all  the 
while.     Then  add  half  a  teaspoonfol  of  salt,  two  ounces 


696  BILLS  OF  FABE. 

of  batter,  and  a  ooaple  of  raw  egg-yolks.     Stir  wefl 
togeihery  and  serre  in  a  basin. 

For  Chicken  Panaday  reduce  the  quantity  of  biead, 
sabstituting  for  it  the  white  meat  of  fowl  minoed 
fine.     The  egg-yolks  may  be  omitted  or  not 


Within  the  last  thirty  or  foriy  years,  a  wonderfbl 
change  has  taken  place  in  the  English  mode  of  serving 
meals.     One  of  Ihe  most  strennons  advocates  of  refonn 
in  this  matter  was  the  late  Mr.  Walker,  a  metropolitan 
police  magistrate,  who,  in  his  Original^  forcibly  demon- 
strated the  possibilify  of  dining  well  off  very  few  dishes, 
and  with  a  moderate  allowance  of  fermented  beverage. 
The  movement  spread ;  private  families  rapidly  discovered 
the  convenience,  the  wholesomeness,  the  economy,  and, 
consequently,  the  comfort  of  the  plan.    ^^  Little  Dinners^* 
—-that  most  agreeable  mode  of  meeting  friends-— became 
recognised  as  an  institution,  especially  when  it  was  found 
that  several  pleasant,  easily  arranged  entertainments  might 
be  given  for  the  cost  of  one  expensive,  troublesome,  and 
wasteful  monster  banquet.     No  more  mountains  of  rem- 
nants were  left,  which  no  family  could  consume  while 
they  were  eatable.     There  was  found  to  be  truth  in  the 
homely  adage,  "  Enough  is  as  good  as  a  Feast," — better 
even. 

All  persons  in  easy  circumstances  were  benefited; 
but  especially  the  Professional,  Literary,  and  Sedentary 
Members  of  Society ;  the  two  first,  by  the  saving  of  time 
thereby  effected ;  all,  by  the  relief  to  their  digestive  oigans. 


BILLS  OF  FARE.  697 

Indigestion  is  a  maladj  which  sorelj  troubles  seden- 
tary and  studious  persons,  whether  thej  be  themselves  pro- 
dnoers,  or  investigators  merely,  of  literature.  The  form 
of  indigestion  to  which  they  are  most  liable  is,  probably, 
that  known  as  saburral, — ^which  is  an  imperfect  digestion 
of  previous  meals,  a  loading  of  the  stomach,  producing  an 
unpleasant  sense  of  fulness  immediately  a  few  mouthfuls 
have  been  eaten.  The  remedy  for  this  is  as  much  air 
and  exercise  as  possible,  together  with  slight  aperients,  if 
needed;  and,  above  all,  great  moderation  in  the  quantity 
of  food  taken, — something,  in  short,  approaching  to 
abstinence, — ^nntil  the  indisposition  has  completely  passed 
away. 

Emetics  are  sometimes  administered  in  these  cases ; 
but  they  are,  to  say  the  least,  an  uneertaiu  means  of  cure, 
and  may^  cause  derangement  of  the  digestive  functions 
worse  than  that  they  were  called  in  to  remedy. 

with  strong  and  repeated  emetics  until  she  reftised  to 
take  more.  But  the  vomiting  continued  after  the  first 
exciting  cause  of  it  was  withdrawn.  Scarcely  a  meal 
could  be  retained  on  the  stomach ;  tonics  and  efiervescent 
drinks  were  tried  in  vain.  The  patient  became  thinner 
and  thinner,  rapidly  losing  strength,  until  considerable 
uneasiness  was  felt  by  her  friends.  Internal  medicines 
seemed  unavailing,  when  she  was  suddenly  and  efifectually 
cured  by  the  application  of  a  blister  to  the  pit  of  the 
stomach.     But  she  will  never  take  an  emetic  again. 

Persons  whose  habits  or  whose  avocations  keep  them 
much  within  doors,  should  never  eat  large  quantities  of 


698  BILLS  OF  FARE, 

food  at  a  time ;  if  gifted  with  a  hearty  appetite,  tibej 
must  gratify  it  with  the  utmost  caution.  In  their  case, 
it  may  be  safelj  surmised  that  indigestion  is  more  fre- 
quently brought  on  by  the  quantify,  rather  than  ihe 
qualify,  of  the  food  they  have  eaten.  So  conyinoed  axe 
we  of  the  truth  of  this  fact,  that  we  ^ve  a  few  sim^ 
Bills  of  Fare,  suggesting  to  delicate  stomachs  a  selection 
of  meab  which  offer  a  sv^vdency  without  tempting  to 
excess. 


DIETARY  DINNEKS, 

COMPOSED  OF  LIOHT  SOLIDS,  MORE  OB  LESS  STJBSTAHTIAI. 

IN  THEm  QUALITY. 


1.  A  cup  of  Beef-Tea,  with  a  few  little  bits  of  toasted 
Bread  in  it. 
Boiled  Sole.   Plain  Melted  Butter.   Mashed  Potatoea. 
Boiled  Custard. 

One  glass  of  good  old  Bhine  Wine  or  Moselle,  to  be 
repeated  every  day  till  the  bottle  is  finished. 


2.  A  cup  of  Brillat-Savarin^s  Elixir. 

Scalded  Whiting.     Plain-boiled,  mealy  Potato. 
Melted  Butter.     The  cruet-stand,  with  a  drop  of 
Soy,  or  Essence  of  Shrimps,  or  of  Anchovies,  or 
Harvey^s  Sauce,  may  be  in  attendance. 

Bread-and-Butter  Pudding. 

One  glass  of  good  Sauteme,  to  be  repeated  everjr  day 
till  the  bottle  is  finished. 


BILLS  OF  FABX.  699 

3.  OjBters,  uncooked  (plumpest  natives^  if  posaible). 
Brown  Bread  and  Butter. 
Plate  of  Mock-Turtle  Soup. 

Boiled  Bread-crust  Pudding,  with  sweet  Wine  Sauce. 
Glass  of  Pale  Ale.    No  wine. 


4.  Tapioca  Soup. 

Boiled  Neck  of  Mutton.      Caper  Sauce.      Mashed 

Turnips. 
Lemon  Pudding. 
One  glass  of  Yin  de  Grave. 


5.  Mutton  Broth,  with  Pearl  Barley. 

Boiled  Turbot  Shrimp  Sauce.  Mashed  Potatoes, 
browned  in  a  mould  in  the  oven,  or  without  a 
mould  under  a  Salamander. 

The  wing  of  a  hot,  roast  Chicken.     Water-cresses. 

Orange  Marmalade,  eaten  with  thin  toast. 

A  glass  and  a  half  of  old  Claret  (Bordeaux  Wine— 
St.  Estephe,  for  instance),  to  be  repeated  next 
day,  when  assistance  must  be  called  in  to  finish 
the  bottle. 

6.  Green-Pease   Soup   (made  with  or  without  green 

pease),  with  a  few  dice  of  toast. 
Cod-steaks.    Mock-Lobster  Sauce.     Boiled  Potatoes 

in  their  jackets. 
The  cold  thighs  and  side-bones  of  a  Chicken. 
Salad,  hearts  of  Lettuce.     Mayonnaise  Sauce. 
A  taste  of  Caviare  on  a  crust  of  Bread. 
Glass  of  Guinness's  Stout     No  wine. 


700  BILLS  OF  FABB. 

7.  YermioeUi  Soup. 

Broiled  Beef-steak  (fillet  of  the  loin).     QyBter  Sanoe. 

Jerusalem  Artichokes. 
Baked  Custard. 
One  glass  of  Port 

8.  Julienne,  or  other  vegetable  Soup. 
Cods'  Tongues.    Egg  Sauce. 

Broiled  Mutton-chop.     Saut&i  Potatoes. 
Snowy  Eggs. 

Glass  of  Marsala  at  the  bottom  of  a  tumbler,  filled  np 
with  Ginger-beer. 


9.  Stewed  Oysters,  garnished  with  toast 

The  half  of  a  Chicken,  boiled.      Parsley  and  Butter. 

Stewed  Celery. 
Sweet  Omelette. 
Glass  of  Sherry. 

10.  Hare  Soup. 

The  other  half  of  the  Chicken,  broiled.     Mushroom 

Sauce. 
Cabinet  Pudding.     Sweet  Sauce. 
Glass  of  Burgundy. 

11.  Pot-au-feu  Soup,  with  crusts  of  Bread. 
Poached  Eggs,  with  Sorrel  and  Spinach. 
Yeal-outlet       Cauliflower    or    Broccoli.      Melted 

Butter. 
Green-GkM)sebeny  Tart     Cream. 
May  Drink.     No  wine. 


BILLS  OF  FABS.  701 

12.  Bioe-and-Onion  Soup. 

Boiled  Calfs  Head     Brain  Sauoe. 

Apple  Fritters. 

Morsel  of  Cream  Cheese,  eaten  with  a  leaf  of  Salad 

or  a  sprig  of  Water-cress. 
Good  Table-beer,  bottled.    No  wine.  ' 


13.  Pease  Soup. 

Hashed  Calfs  Head,  or  k  la  Tortue.     Boiled  Bioe. 

Asparagus.     Melted  Butter. 

Tartlets. 

Glass  of  Sherry. 

14.  Hustled  Cookies. 

Boiled  Duck.     Onion  Saaoe. 
Grilled  Mutton-kidney. 
Slice  of  Sponge-cake. 

Glass  of  Champagne  at  the  bottom  of  a  tumbler,  to 
be  filled  up  with  water. 


15.  Cabbage  Soup. 
Vol-au-Vent 

The  Doctor's  Muttop-chop.     Kidney-beans. 
Baked  Apples,  or  Stewed  Pears. 
Glass  of  good  Devonshire  Cider. 


16.  Half  a  dozen  boiled  Shrimps.     One  slice  of  Brown 

Bread  and  Butter. 
Sheeps'  Trotters  k  la  Poulette. 
Boiled  Leg  of  Pork,  stuffed  with  Parsley.    Pease 

Pudding. 


702  BHiUS  OF  FABB. 

Stilton  Cheese.     Biscuits. 
Glass  of  Scotch  Ale.    No  wine. 


17.  Old-Hen  Soup. 

Boiled  Leg  of  Lamb.     Brussels  Sprouts.     Maizi-        ' 

mony  Sauce. 
Baked  Rice  Pudding. 
Tumbler  of  Brown  Sheny  and  Water. 


18.  Carrot  Soup  (of  young,  spring,  short-horn  CarrotSy 
grown  in  a  firame). 
Boiled  Mackarel.     Fennel  Sauce.    New  Potatces. 
Boast  DucL     Green  Pease. 
Cheshire  Cheese.     PuUed-Bread  Biscuit. 
Two  glasses  of  old  Macon. 


19.  GibletSoup. 

Boast  Mutton.     Currant  Jelly.     Elidney-beans. 
Soused   MackareL      Salad   of  Cabbage   Lettuce- 
hearts.     Mayonnaise  Sauce. 
Glass  and  half  of  Hermitage. 


20.  Maccaroni  Soup. 

Hashed  Mutton.     Summer  Cabbage. 
Boast  Fowl,  with  Water-cresses. 
Bread-and-Butter  Pudding. 
Glass  of  old  St.  Gteorge. 


21.  Julienne  Soup. 

Stewed  Babbit ;  its  own  gravy,  seasoned  with  Ouny,. 
in  a  separate  sauce-boat     Boiled  Bice. 


BILIiS  OF  FAB8.  703 

Apple  Puddingy  i.  e.  Apple  Dampling  boiled  in  a 
basiiL 

A  glass  and  a  half  of  good  Hungarian  Wine^  of 
which  ihere  are  many  excellent  sorts,  which  de- 
serve to  be  more  generally  patronised  in  England. 


22.  Oyster  Soap. 

Boiled  Partridge.     Onion  Sance.     Bread  Sauce. 

Mutton-cutlets  k  la  Jardini&re. 

Strawberry-Jam  Omelette. 

Crust  of  Bread  and  morsel  of  Cheese. 

Pint  of  Pale  Ale.     No  wine. 


23.  Boiled  Haddock.     Caper  Sauce. 

Boiled  Sausages,   surrounding  a  bed  of  chopped 

Savoy  Cabbages,  with  poached  Eggs  lying  in 

the  middle. 
Maecaroni,  with  Cheese,  baked  or  salamandered. 
A  tumbler  of  cold  Punch  and  Water. 


24.  Ox-tail  Soup. 

Sheeps'  Trotters   k  la  Poulette.      Stewed  Celery 

(white). 
Boast  Hare,  with  stuffing.     Currant  Jelly.    Winter 

Qreens. 
Morsel  of  Pat^  de  Foie  Grras  and  crust  of  Bread. 
Tumbler  of  hot  Whisky- toddy. 

It  is  evident  that  most  of  these  Menus  will  serve  for 
quiet-living  fiunilies  and  for  persons  of  simple  habits 


704  BILLS  OF  FABE. 

messing  together — as  in  boarding-houses  mainlj  fSne- 
quented  by  invalids — as  well  as  for  such  individuals  as 
are  careftd  to  avoid  any  thing  approaching  to  repletioiL 
Nothing  is  easier  than  to  vary  them^  by  reference  to  tho 
preceding  chapters,  when  once  the  principle  is  adopted, 
ThxU  it  is  desirable  to  vcary  the  composition  of  dinners  from 
day  to  day  J  instead  of  combining  great  variety  in  the 
same  meal  or  dinner. 

Entertainments,  or  dinners  given  to  firiends,  cannot 
be  so  simple  as  the  above ;  yet,  they  will  be  found  to  go 
off  better,  to  be  more  thoroughly  appreciated,  and  to 
accord  with  the  common  sense  of  the  guests  invited,  if 
they  are  governed  by  the  rule  of  having  as  few  unneces- 
saries  as  possible.  This  rule,  of  course,  hangs  to  a 
sliding  scale  depending  on  the  dinner-giver's  position 
and  income ;  but  it  is  surely  possible  to  hit  the  happy 
mean  which  harmonises  with  the  entertainer's  means 
and  station.  This  maxim,  however,  may  be  safely  laid 
down :  that,  for  a  limited  number  of  guests,  as  at  a 
dinner — t.e.  when  a  crowd  is  not  expected,  as  at  a  ball, 
rendering  the  calculation  of  quantities  difficult — ^it  is 
vulgar,  and  in  bad  taste,  to  put  too  much  upon  a 
table. 

This  branch  of  the  subject  is  best  iUustrated  by 
examples.  Some,  excellent  Bills  of  Fare,  with  the  pre- 
paration of  the  dishes  composing  them,  are  given  in 
CobIAs  in  Search  of  a  Cook.  To  these  we  can  only  leftr 
the  reader ;  the  book  is  well  worth  the  trifle  it  costs.  We 
present  a  few  others,  which  have  not  yet  been  published 
in  any  volume. 


BILLS  OF  FARE.  705 

"  A  Derbyshire  Peakrill,"  Avriting  to  tlie  Tbiies^  says: 

^'  I  liko  occasionally  to  diiio  my  frieuds^  and  to  do  so 
without  draining  my  pocket.  I,  therefore,  give  you  the 
fare  provided  for  my  ten  guests  yesterday.  You  will 
perceive  that  I  adhere  to  home  productions  as  much  as 
possible,  and  tliat  economj'^  is  strictly  studied. 

"  First,  I  had  crawfish  soup,  made  upon  a  veal-stock 
foundation  (tlie  stock  prepared  as  for  vermicelli  soup), 
the  tails  of  the  fish  cut  into  long,  tliin  strips,  and  the 
remainder  rubbed  tlirough  a  sieve. 

"My  only  Fish  was  Dove  Grayling  boiled,  plain 
melted  butter,  and  home-made  mushroom  ketchup,  with 
a  boiled  potato,  hot,  mealy,  and  not  overdone.  A  glass 
of  good  old-fashioned  brown  sheny,  matured  under  a 
tropical  sun,  was  the  only  concomitant. 

"  Rabbits  ?  Yes ;  rabbits  boiled,  or  rather  gently 
stewed,  in  milk  (with  a  garnish  of  alternate  slices  of 
broiled  ham  and  fat  boiled  bacon,  home-cured,  rolled 
round,  and  enclosing  the  white  pulled  fibres  of  another 
rabbit),  were  accom2)anied  by  stewed  celery  and  white 
sauce,  and  sea-kale  and  good  melted  butter.  No  toast 
under  either  vegetable,  to  absorb  the  flavour  and  be  left 
in  the  dish. 

"  A  Hamich  of  small  mountain  mutton,  wliich  had 
hung  five  weeks,  with  mashed  potatoes  and  fresh,  hot, 
boiled  ditto,  for  the  next  remove.  Tlio  only  two  side 
dishes  were  sweetbreads  and  oyster  patties;  and  these 
I  would  gladly  have  dispensed  with^  but  my  better-half 
had  two  handsome  silver  (electro-plated)  side  dishes,  and 
these  must  necessarily  be  used.     Sparkling  Moselle  (no 

z  z 


70S  BILLS  OF  FAEE. 

sham  Champagne  will  I  tolerate)  was  now  to  me  Yerj 
agreeable. 

^^  A  grayhen  and  a  couple  of  woodcocks^  all  roasted 
before  an  open  fire;  captains'  biscuits  and  muBhrooms; 
a  cabinet  podding,  and  a  damson  tart, — concluded  the 
dinner. 

^^The  Dessert  consisted  of  fqpples,  pears,  ofires,  pre- 
served ginger,  and  some  nondescripts — ^the  joj  of  some 
people's  hearts,  but  not  of  mine ;  the  garnish,  mountain 
heath,  moss,  and  bilberry  boughs. 

^^The  wines:  Full-bodied  in^  claret  (!);  matured, 
but  not  exhausted,  port;  and  East-India  brown  sherry. 
The  dinner  was  served  up  hot ;  and  no  hitch  occurred, 
simply  because  too  much  was  not  attempted.  Though 
your  professed  gourmand  may  sneer  at  my  simple  fare, 
I  assure  you  that  smiling  &ces  and  good  digestions 
insured  a  pleasant  evening.  I  trust  I  may  learn  from 
the  Timesj  the  world's  instructor,  how  to  give  a  better 
dinner  at  the  same  expense." 

The  above  Bill  of  Fare  is  excellent;  especially 
because  it  admits  of  variation  to  any  extent,  retaining  the 
groundwork  of  the  original  plan.  It  is  also  capable  of 
simplification.  The  gray  hen  and  woodcocks,  after  the 
mountain  mutton,  are  unnecessary.  When  game  is 
served,  by  giving  plenty  of  it,  it  takes  the  place  of  the 
roast,  which  may  be  suppressed.  ^^Inky  claret,"  we 
venture  to  suggest,  is  an  error ;  accidental,  probably.  The 
beauly  of  claret  (next  to  its  bouquet)  consists  in  its 
brilliant  limpidity.  The  word  "  claret"  is  derived  from 
the  French  ckur — clear,  light-coloured;    and  dairety 


BILLS  OF  FABS.  707 

therefore,  or  claret  wine,  should  not  be  inkj.  The 
Derbyshire  Peakrill  is  advised  to  try  some  of  the  best 
Hungarian  wines,  which,  without  being  ^^inky,'*  are 
full  of  flavour. 

In  the  same  number  of  the  leading  journal,  ^^A 
Housekeeper  to  800L  per  annum'^  gives  a  practical 
illustration  of  the  difference  of  cost  between  an  Old- 
Fashioned  and  a  Reformed  Dinner,  the  prices  given 
being  those  of  the  locality  in  which  she  lives,  and  which 
of  course  might  vary  in  other  neighbourhoods. 

Old  Dinner  for  Twelve :  Fish,  5*. ;  Turkey,  6«.  6d. 
Plum-pudding,  28. ;  Sweetbread,  Is. ;  Dutch  Jelly, 
28.  6d. ;  Duck,  2«.  6d. ;  Pastry,  Is. ;  Curry  and  Blanc- 
mange, 28. ;  Gktme,  3& ;  Beef,  9«.  6d. ;  Soup,  3^.  6d. ; 
Eggs  k  la  Tripe,  9d ;  Jelly,  28.  6d. ;  Tongue,  28.  6d.  ; 
Basket  Tart,  Is.  Qd. ;  Oyster  Patties,  Is.  6d. ;  Cream, 
28.  6d.    Total,  22.  ds.  6d. 

The  comer  and  side  dishes  were  put  on  the  table, 
with  the  soup  and  fish.  The  whole  took  half  an  hour  to 
dish  up.  The  reader  will  judge  how  warm  such  a  dinner 
can  be. 

Reformed  Dinner  for  Twelve:  Tables  laid  without 
firuits  and  flowers ;  finiit  much  the  same  in  quantity  as 
heretofore ;  dishes  to  be  brought  in  one  by  one,  hot  fin)m 
the  kitchen,  and  carved  at  the  side-table. 

Soup,  Ss.  6d. ;  Fish,  3s.  6d. ;  Oyster  Patties,  Is.  8d. ; 
Sweetbread,  Is.  6d.;  Beef  (81b.  instead  of  161b.), 
As.  Sd. ;  Turkey,  6s.  6d.y  and  Tongue,  28.  6(2.,  handed 
together ;  Game,  85. ;  Pudding,  28. ;  Jelly,  2s.  6d. ; 
Cream,  28.  6d.    Total,  11.  Us.  6d. 


708  BILLS  OF  FABE. 

Each  guest  may  thus  partake  of  ten  dishes.  Those 
over  ten,  on  the  old  system  ^  served  merely  to  fill  the  table. 

This,  too,  is  a  good  dinner,  not  difficult  to  serve  hot 
It  is  also  capable  of  simplification;  the  Sweetbread 
and  the  Game  are  quite  superfluous.  For  English 
dinners,  wo  repeat,  are  passing  through  a  i^volutiouary 
phase,  which  is  not  even  yet  quite  complete  nor  univers- 
ally adopted.*  Wliile  taking  care  to  have  sufficient,  let 
there  be  abundance  mitliout  profusion.  A  rich  man  cau 
always  display  his  wealth  in  tlie  quaUty  and  tlie  kind  of 

*  In  reference  to  this  topic,  we  cannot  refrain  from  quoting  a  letter 
addressed  by  S.  G.  O.  to  the  Times: 

"  A  comparatively  poor  man  myself,  I  have  ever  pitied  the  great 
unemployed  rich  class ;  they  can  get  through  a  great  deal  of  wealth** 
inconvenience  by  paid  agency,  but  no  one  can  eat,  drink,  sleep,  and 
digest  fur  them :  these  ai'e  duties  which  cannot  be  done  by  deputy. 
The  wealthy,  per  force  of  their  position,  must  have  large,  expensive 
establishments  ;  they  are  doomed  to  live  in  *  show'  houses  ;  they  are 
the  proper  consumers  of  the  produce  of  decorative  art ;  but  they  yet 
have  to  eat:  and  here  comes  the  question,  How  can  they  eat  in 
character  ?  How  can  they  dine  up  to  their  pictures,  sculpture,  plate, 
music,  &c.  ? 

*'  As  I  have  often  gone  through  the  process  of  participation  in  one 
of  these  so-called  good  dinners,  I  am  quite  alive  to  the  effect  which 
can  be  produced  by  a  deep  and  skilful  attention  to  kitchen  and  cellar 
chemistry,  with  its  appropriate  accompaniments ;  whether  the  result 
was  worth  the  labour,  I  may  have  doubted.  Yes,  I  have  mused  at  such 
a  scene  on  what  the  affair  has  cost  in  the  actual  value  of  the  articles 
called  into  use ;  on  the  skill  necessary  to  develop  the  full  resources  of 
the  culinary  staff;  on  the  training  necessary  to  qualify  the  gentleman, 
the  under-gentlemen,  and  the  liveried  attendants.  I  by  calculation 
arrived  at  the  fact  that  for  such  a  dinner  for  sixteen  persons,  there  would 
never  be  less  than  1 500  articles  each  day  to  be  placed  and  displaced,  a 
great  proportion  of  them  requiring  cleaning ;  in  some  houses,  many 
more  articles  are  used  for  such  a  party.  It  was  an  affiur,  perhaps,  of  tifto 
hours  from  leaving  the  drawing  room  to  returning  to  it  Sixteen  pe«)plc 
had  dined,  out  of  whom  it  might  safely  be  said  some  six  or  eight  had 
previous  to  the  dinner-hour  really  taken  all  the  food  (bow  vulgar  a 


BILI5  OF  FARE.  709 

the  dishes  he  offers  you,  without  overwhehning  you  with 
tlieir  number.  In  short,  never  put  too  much  upon  tho 
table. 

Tlie  error  is  much  easier  to  avoid  now  than  it  was 
thirty  or  forty  years  ago.  The  merit  of  moderation, 
then,  was  a  distinguished  mark  of  good  taste  and  dis- 
cernment. In  olden  time  (see  the  Cookery  Books,  witli 
dinners  for  every  month,  and  even  every  day,  of  tho 
year),  a  table,  at  each  course,  had  to  be  covered  with  a 
set  number  of  dishes,  as  precisely  fixed  and  as  numerous 

word  I)  they  really  needad,  or  really  cared  for.  Still,  *  the  thing*  had 
been  well  done,  the  guests  had  been  g^'atified  with  a  good  dinner  of 
'the  day  ;'  it  was  now  established,  the  dinners  at house  are  first- 
rate  ;  the  sons  of  the  house  receive  all  club  honuige  for  the  fact ;  the 
fathers  are  satisfied  it  should  be  so,  and  pay  the  cost,  mental  and 
financial. 

"  I  have  no  disposition  to  moralise  on  this  feature  of  opulent  life  ; 
I  know  all  that  can  be  said  about  it  in  a  'serious*  spirit  is  too  evident 
to  require  rehearsal  at  my  hands. 

*'If  I  pity  the  rich  man  in  table  difiiculty,  I  have  no  feeling  for 
800/.  a  year  sufferers.  If  these  will  ape  the  customs  and  aim  at  tho 
table  appliances  of  the  opulent,  they  can  but  fail,  and  look  tho  fools 
they  are.  Let  them  stick  to  joints,  chops,  steaks,  and  occasional 
cutlets ;  get  these  well  done ;  have  good  potatoes,  well  boiled ;  bo 
particular  in  their  beer  and  porter ;  as  to  wines,  let  them  get,  if  they 
can,  good  sherry  and  port,  but  even  with  these  be  chary  of  dailtf 
extravagance.  As  to  all  the  fiddle-faddle  about  side  dishes,  flowers* 
and  fruit  for  the  table,  it  is  in  their  case  simple  flunkey  ism,  belongs  to 
the  school  where  white-cotton  gloves  mask  the  gardener's  good,  honest, 
soil-grained  thumbs,  and  the  coachman  (so-called)  has  to  tread  deli- 
cately for  the  day,  that  he  may  not  savour  of  the  stable  at  dinner.  I 
believe  the  dinners  of  the  middle  classes,  of  the  clergy,  professional 
men,  and  small  esquires,  are,  as  the  rule,  excellent  in  their  way,  wher- 
ever the  ruling  power  of  the  house  has  the  common  sense  necessary  to 
offer  only  what  can  be  served  with  ease,  served  plainly,  and  well 
cooked, — when,  with  no  fear  of  a  break-down,  the  host  or  hostess,  or 
both,  can  give  themselves  to  entertain  their  guests  at  an  unostentatious 
meal  in  keeping  with  the  house  and  the  known  means  of  the  owner.*' 


710  BILLS  OF  FABE. 

as  the  pieces  on  a  chess-board.  They  served  for  oma- 
meiit  rather  than  for  use,  as  it  was  impossible  to  tajste  one- 
third  of  them  hot ;  and  the  leavings  of  a  dinner-party 
were  awfully  hard  work  for  a  family  to  get  through  with. 
At  present,  the  modem  fashions  of  substituting  the  white 
table-doth  for  the  brown  mahogany  at  dessert,  of  decor- 
ating the  table  with  that  dessert  and  with  flowers  from 
the  beginning,  and  of  carving  joints  at  side-tables  and 
handing  the  dishes  round,  relieve  the  dinner-giver  of  all 
temptation  to  make  ostentatious  displays  of  masses  of 
meat. 

On  the  other  hand,  as  excess  in  the  quantify  of  the 
united  meal  is  coarse  and  vulgar,  so  scantiness  in  the 
supply  of  any  one  particular  dish  is  not  mean  (for  it  is 
sometimes  unavoidable),  but  simply  absurd.  A  dish 
should  never  have  le  ffoiH  de  trofp  peu — "  the  taste  of  too 
little."  This  is  the  great  objection  to  side  dishes  con- 
taining a  few  mouthfuls  of  some  expensive  delicacy,  '^  to 
please  the  ladies,"  when  one  lady  could  clear  the  dish 
without  assistance.  Therefore,  if  you  cannot  produce 
enough  green  pease,  asparagus,  or  early  strawberries, 
for  each  person  who  sees  them  to  have  a  fair  portion, 
suppress  them  altogether.  Remember  Thackeray's  sketch 
in  Punch:  "Will  you  take  a  little  game,  my  dear?" 
A  lady  and  gentleman  are  entertaining.  The  servant 
lifts  an  immense  silver  cover  from  a  vast  silver  dish,  on 
which  reposes — a  roasted  lark ! 

Apropos  of  plate  and  silver :  A  plated  dinner-servioe, 
for  eveiy-day  family  use  in  the  dining-room,  although  a 
considerable  outlay  at  first,  pays  itself  in  the  end  by  the 


BILLS  OF  FARE.  711 

tsaving  of  breakage.  It  neither  excites  the  envy  of  neigh- 
bours nor  the  greed  of  thieves,  like  the  golden  dishes  of 
royalty. 

Onoe,  when  Louis  XIY.  of  France  was  giving  a 
state  dinner  to  the  royal  family,  the  courtiers  (as  was 
then  the  custom)  crowded  round  the  table,  to  witness 
the  grace  with  which  his  Majesty  picked  a  pheasant- 
bone.  Amongst  them,  Arlequin  Dominique,  the  famous 
actor,  could  not  take  his  eyes  off  a  brace  of  partridges 
which  lay  upon  a  golden  dish.  The  king  observing  it, 
good-humouredly  said,  "  Give  that  dish  to  Dominique.'* 
^^Beally,  Sire!  and  the  partridges  too?"  replied  the 
ready  Arlequin.  His  Majesty,  stupefied,  hesitated  an 
instant ;  and  then,  laughing  at  the  fellow's  impudence, 
added,  ^^  Tes,  and  the  partridges  too  I" 

Every  body  wishes  to  give  good  dinners.  Large 
dinners  puzzle  the  givers,  because  they  have  not  con- 
sidered the  theory  of  dining — ^which  theory  our  dining- 
room  reforms  enable  us  now  to  put  in  practice.  The 
old  system  was  as  if  a  party  of  twenty  were  an  individual 
ogre  possessing  a  twenty-man  appetite.  But  a  dinner- 
party is  not  an  individual ;  it  is  an  assembly  of  indi- 
viduals, a  combination  of  units.  Take,  therefore,  a  good 
dinner  for  one ;  multiply  its  quantity  by  twenty,  and  you 
have  a  good  dinner  for  twenty.  One  man  cannot  par- 
take of  fifty  different  dishes  at  the  same  meal ;  neither 
can  twenty  men  each  partake  of  fifty  different  dishes  at 
one  repast  Only,  in  providing  for  a  party,  you  may 
have  a  few  more  dishes  than  in  providing  for  one  person, 
to  aUow  far  the  d^erence  of  taster     If  the  tastes  of  the 


712  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

guests  were  alike  and  accordant,  not  a  single  extra  dish 
would  be  required. 

What,  then,  is  a  good  dinner  for  one  ?  Let  us  take 
tlie  standard  universally  acknowledged  as  sufficient  in 
Paris.  It  may  be  tasted  any  day  at  such  convenient 
places  as  the  Diner  de  Paris,  Passage  Jouffroy, 
nearly  op{x>site  to  the  Theatre  des  Varices ;  or  at  the 
Hotel  de  France  et  d'Anglcterre,  Hue  des  Filles  SL 
Thomas,  leaduig  out  of  the  Place  do  la  Bourse. 

Each  person  is  supposed  to  require  a  plate  of  soup ; 
then  a  hors  cCanivre  or  two  {Le.  a  bit  of  butter,  an  an- 
chovy, or  a  radish — a  plaything,  in  short),  to  pass  the 
time.  Tlien,  three  dislies,  one  after  the  other,  wliich 
really  constitute  the  substance  of  the  dinner ;  but,  in 
Paris,  fish  counts  as  a  dish,  and  vegetables  (cauliflowers, 
pease,  or  asparagus,  for  instance)  are  a  dish.  Then, 
either  an  ice,  a  heignet  (fritter),  an  omelette  soufflee,  or 
other  kickshaw;  and,  finally,  a  trifle  of  dessert,  and  a 
glass  of  liqueur.  Wine,  at  discretion,  is  taken  with  tlie 
meal.  In  France,  it  is  the  height  of  orthodoxy  to  com- 
mence a  dejeuner  or  a  dinner  with  oystere,  wliich  are 
eaten  before  tlie  soup,  and  are  hardly  considered  to  form 
part  of  the  meal. 

Now,  to  apply  these  principles  to  a  dinner-party  : 
First,  every  guest  will  have  a  bill  of  fare  beside  his  plates 
that  he  may  make  his  selection.  There  may  be  two 
kuids  of  soup,  suited  to  the  season,  to  choose  from ;  as 
julienne  and  tapioca  in  summer,  and  ox-tail  and  mock  or 
real  turtle  in  cold  weather ;  or,  at  any  time,  a  white  and 
a  brown  soup,  or  a  tliin  soup  and  a  mouthful  soup. 


BILLS  OF  FARE.  713 

The  Iwrs  d'omvres  will  be  disposed  up  aiid  down  the 
table^  adding  to  its  ornamentation,  and  inviting  a  trial. 

Two  kinds  of  fish,  with  their  appropriate  sauces,  will 
suffice.  Tliis  mode  allows  small  fish  to  be  served;  as 
their  selection  need  not  be  principally  guided  by  tlie 
appearance  they  will  make  top  and  bottom. 

Bemembering  that  a  private  entertainment  may  be 
more  liberally  supplied  than  a  low-priced  restaurant 
dinner  can  be,  there  may  be  four  or  five  kinds  of  flesh 
dishes,  quite  moderate-sized  joints  (whether  of  beef,  veal, 
mutton,  lamb,  })Oultry,  or  game),  each  with  a  fitting 
accompaniment  of  vegetable  (as  we  eat  vegetables  with 
our  meat),  and  some  scribed  white  and  some  brown.  Of 
course,  a  servant  is  ready  with  salad,  for  those  who 
choose  to  eat  it  with  the  roast. 

Then,  a  choice  of  two  or  three  sweets,  intended  for 
the  ladies  rather  than  the  gentlemen ;  and  then,  the 
standing  and  fixed  dessert 

Celery  will  be  a  liors  d^oeuvre  to  go  witli  the  cheese ; 
which  may  be  taken  either  English  fashion,  between 
dinner  and  dessert,  or  may  form  part  of  the  dessert  itself, 
as  is  the  custom  in  France. 

The  wines  must  depend  on  the  entertainer's  gener- 
osity, the  wealtli  of  his  cellar,  and  the  taste  of  his  guests. 

No  one  can  call  such  a  dinner  cither  extravagant  or 
a  bad  one,  if  well  cooked  and  well  served.  It  may  bo 
varied  greatly,  without  increasing  either  its  cost  or  its 
cumbrousness.  Its  scale  is  enough,  and  not  too  much : 
and  its  remains  will  not  tax  the  family's  digestive  powers. 
Good  waiting  is  of  the  utmost  necessity. 


714  B1LIJ3  OF  FABS. 

A  writer  in  the  Times  would  introdaoe  a  sixnibr 
principle  of  simplification  into  those  magnificent  meases, 
the  Lord  Mayor's  dinners;  which,  he  says,  are  reaDj 
Tery  bad,  not  creditable  to  the  wealth  of  the  City^  and 
not  gratifying  to  the  majority  of  the  visitors.     He  once 
had  to  dine  ofi^  green  pease  only,  although  tempted  with 
a  long  list  of  things  which  it  was  impossible  to  obtain. 
The  Lord  Mayor's  guests  would  be  in  the  same  predica- 
ment as  the  First  Napoleon's— obliged  to  eat  a  hearty 
dinner  before  going  out  to  dine,  through  want  of  victaak 
in  one  case,  as  through  want  of  time  in  the  other  ;  fi>r 
the  Emperor,  on  state  occasions,    remained  at  taUe 
thirty  minutes,  neither  more  nor  less ;  at  ordinajy  din- 
ners, fifteen  minutes  only* 

The  correspondent  of  the  Times  advised  the  CSiy 
Committee  for  Lord  Mayor's  Day  to  imitate  the  pablic 
dinners  given  at  the  Hotel  de  Yille  of  Paris.  Let 
ihem  provide  a  complete  dinner  for  a  party  of  eight; 
namely,  the  turtle  and  another  soup;  the  tnrbot  and 
another  fish ;  two  entries  ;  the  venison  and  roast  beef;  the 
sweets  and  the  ices.  Let  them  avoid  the  riot  and  nn- 
certainty  of  a  hundred  other  dishes  named  in  a  menu; 
and,  sticking  to  these,  multiply  them  by  the  number  of 
parties  of  eight  invited.  Let  them  also  insist  that  each 
set  of  waiters  attend  only  to  their  own  party  of  eight, 
and  not  wander  ofi^  to  distant  Common  Councilmen  with 
the  prime  cuts  of  turbot  and  venison.  By  following  this 
simple  method,  they  may  inaugurate  an  epoch  of  reform 
in  civic  dinners,  which  is  extremely  needed. 

Actual  Bills  of  Fare  show  what  may  be  done.    Tt» 


BILLS  OF  FABE.  715 

following  was  served,  with  great  approbation,  to  about 
fiffy  or  sixiy  guests,  in  the  dining-room  of  the  Hdtel  de 
Brabant,  Brussels. 

Soup, 

Boast  Beef.     Sauted  Potatoes. 

Fork-chops,  with  chopped  green  Cabbage. 

Boast  Chicken,  h  la  Tartare. 

Boast  Leg  of  Mutton.     Kidney-beans. 

Boast  Thrushes. 

Tongue.     Salad. 

Cakes. 

Every  thing  hot,  and  excellently  cooked.  Price,  two 
francs  and  a  half  (two  shillings)  per  head,  exclusive  of 
wine. 

Dinners  considerably  more  expensive  are  daily  served 
to  a  numerous  party  at  the  Grand  Hotel,  Paris.  It  is 
worth  while  giving  a  specimen  of  the  usual 

Menu  (Bill  of  Fare). 
L 

Soup.     Crecy,  with  Fried  Bread. 
Bissoles  of  Fowl. 

Removea.     Whitings,  au  Gratiru 
Beef,  a  la  Mode. 

Entries.    First  Course.     Ducklings,  with  Green  Pease. 

Maccaroni,  h  la  MUanaise. 

The  Boast  Meat.     Chicken,  with  Water-cresses. 

Salad. 


716  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Entremets.     Tliivd  Course.     Celery  in  branclics, 

a  VEspagnole. 
Rico  Puddings,  with  Fruit 

Ice.     Bombcs,*  a  VOmnge. 

Dessert. 

15  February  1867. 

Price,  eight  francs,  including  wine.  Service  and 
cookery  first-rate.  This  is  what  a  cook  of  the  old  school 
would  call  quite  a  small  dinner,  and  yot  it  is  more  than 
enough  to  satisfy  any  reasonable  appetite.  It  will  be 
noted  that  there  are  no  "  side  dishes;"  which  is  really 

what  was  understood  by  the  word  entremets  in  former 
times.  Every  thing  is  served  in  its  turn,  and  nothing  is 
set  on  the  table  merely  to  be  looked  at.  Nevertheless, 
the  mefiiis  in  Paris  are  regarded  at  present  as  elaborate, 
the  ingredients  being  so  ingeniously  tortured  tliat  it  is 
difficult  to  recognise  meat,  or  to  distinguish  it  fix)m  fish 
or  fowl. 

We  add  a  few  more  instances  of  the  same  system  of 
serving  dinner. 

11. 

Soitp.     Turtle,  a  rAmericaine. 
Marinaded  Shecps'  Brains,  fried. 

Removes.     Salmon  Trout.     Dutch  Sauce. 
Braised  Fillet  of  Beef,  a  la  Chipolata.^ 

*  Bombes  are  ices  containing  citron-peel  or  pine-apple,  chopped 
into  small  piecei^. 

f  Cipolhtta  is  Italian  for  scnllionn,  chives. 


BILLS  OF  FABE.  717 

First  Course.     Chicken.     Sauce  Supreme. 
Mutton-chops,  Bread-crumbed ;  with  Chicory. 

The  lioast  Meat     Wild  Ducks. 
Salad. 

Third  Course,     Mushroom  Toast  (Crofites  aux  Cham- 
pignons). 
Pithiviers  Cake.* 

Ices,     Vanilla  and  Raspberry. 

Dessert 

III. 

Soup,     Consomme,  with  Italian  Paste. 
Mayonnaise  of  Sheeps'  Brains. 

Removes,      Salt  Cod,  a  rAnglaise, 
Legs  of  Mutton,  with  Pm'ce  of  Potatoes. 

Fi7*st  Course,     Chicken,  sauted  with  Ti'uiHes. 
Hamburgh  Tongues,  a  la  Jardiniere, 

The  Roast  Meat,     Wild  Ducks. 
Salad. 

JXiVrf  Course,     Cauliflowers,  with  Dutch  Sauce. 
Jelly  of  Fruit  jn'oscrved  in  Liqueurs. 

Ice,     Chuteaubriarfd.  f 

Dessert. 


*  An  old-fashioned  French  cake.  A  flat  sponge-cake,  cut  in  two 
horizontally,  and  spread  with  jam  between  the  slices. 

f  This  ice  contains  minced  citron  and  lemon-peel,  and  very  small 
Smyrna  raisins. 


718  BILLS  OF  FABS. 

IV. 

Soup.     Jnlienne^  yn&i  Consomm^. 
Cramoski.* 

Removes.     Bed  Gurnard,  a  la  Maitre  d^H6teL 
Braised  Ribs  of  Beef,  garnished  with  Sanrkrant. 

First  Course,     Hashed  Grame,  with  Mnshrooms. 
Veal  Sweetbreads,  with  Green  Pease. 

The  Roast  MeaL     Poulardes  (caponised  Pallets), 

Water-cresses. 
Salad. 

Third  Course.     Artichokes  santed,  h  Vltalienne. 

Fruit  Tardeis. 

Ice.     Dames  blanchesf  au  ElirscL 

Dessert 

V. 

Soup.     Crust  in  the  Pot. 
Little  Cases  of  Fat  Livers  {Caisses  de  Foies  ffras^ 

Removes.     Fried  Soles. 
Boast  Beef,  with  sautM  Potatoes. 

First  Course.     Vol-au-Vent,  h  la  TouUMse.% 
Lambs'  Kidneys,  au  Graiin. 

The  Roast  Meat.     Chicken,  with  Water-cresses. 

Salad. 

*  Hollow  Fritters,  Beigneta  SoyffiiSy  or  Pets  de  Nimne,  containing^ 
a  small  quantity  of  truffles  chopped  very  fine. 

f  White  ices,  piled  high,  like  little  sugar-loaves. 

%  Toulouse  is  celebrated  both  for  its  truffles  and  also  for  its  geese, 
and  consequently  their  lirers.  It  is  likewise  a  great  place  for  turkeya 
and  a  long  list  of  other  good  things,  the  produce  of  the  south. 


BILLS  OF  FABX.  719 

Third  Course.     Speckled  Haricots,  a  la  Mattre  cPHSteL 
Charlottes  Busses,  ct  la  VanHle. 

Ice.     Perfect,  Moka  Coffee. 
Dessert 

VL 

Soup.    Yermicelli,  in  Consomm& 
Croquettes  of  FowL 

Removes.    Fresh  Cod,  with  Dutch  Sauce. 
Saddles  of  Mutton,  with  stuffed  Mushrooms. 

First  Course.    York  Ham,  with  Spinach. 
Fillets  of  Beef,  h  la  BSamaise. 

The  Boast  Meat.     Chicken,  with  Water-cresses. 

Salad. 

Third  Course.     Green  Kidney-beans,  a  VAnglaise. 
Meringues,  a  la  ChantiUy. 

Ice.    Bombes,  Vanilla  and  Baspbeny. 

Dessert. 

VII. 

Soup.    Boyal  Consomm6,  with  Asparagus-tops. 

Little  Patties,  au  naturel. 

Removes.     FiUets  of  Sole,  a  la  Colbert. 
Braised  FOlets  of  Beef,  a  la  Dauphine. 

First  Course.     Chicken,  with  Tarragon  Sauce. 
Legs  of  Veal,  a  la  Jardinihe. 

The  Roast  Meat.    Turkey  Hens,  with  Water-cresses. 

Salad. 


[ 


720  BILLS  OF  FABE. 

Tliird  Course.     Hmcots,  a  la  Maitre  d^HateL 
Croutes  aux  Ananas  (Pine-apple  Toast). 

Ice.     Perfect,  Coffee. 
Dessert 

'    vni. 

Soup.     Julienne,  with  Pease  Puree. 
Mayonnaise  of  Sheeps'  Brains. 

Bemoves.     Turbots,  with  Dutch  Sauce. 
Legs  of  Mutton,  with  Puree  of  Potatoes. 

First  Course.     Pigeons,  with  Perigueux*  Sauoe. 
Loins  of  Fresh  Pork,  a  TAnglaise. 

The  Roast  Meat.     Capons,  with  Water-cresses. 

Salad. 

ITiird  Course.     Artichokes  sautckl,  a  la  Lyomvaise. 

Bavarois,f  an  Chocolat. 

Ice.     Dames  Blanches  au  Kirsch. 

Dessert 

IX. 

Soup.     Tapioca,  a  la  Cricy. 

Bouchees  a  la  Bjevne.X 

♦  Perigueux,  famous  for  truffles. 

f  Whipped  Cream,  made  firm  in  a  mould  with  the  aid  of  ice. 

{  Little  patties,  or  tinj  vol8-au*vent,  one  of  which  suffices  for  one 
person.  Their  hollow  interior  is  filled  with  minced  chicken-fleah  and 
tongue,  stewed  in  cream  or  Bechamel,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  lemon- 
juice,  and  pepper.  Bouchies  a  la  Heine  means  "  mouthfnls  for  a  queen.** 
Almost  every  first  ^rate  chef  will  haye  his  own  way  (the  only  correci 
one)  of  making  thorn. 


BILLS  OF  FABE.  721 

jRemovea.    Brill.     Sance  Genevoise. 
Joints  of  Beef,  garnished  h  la  Mamaude, 

First  Course.     Fricasseed  Chicken* 
Mutton-chops,  with  a  Pur^e  of  Chestnuts. 

ITie  Boast  Meat.    Wild  Ducks. 
Salad. 

Third  Course.     Green  Pease,  French  fashion  (19th  Fe- 
bruary 1867). 
Baba  au  Bhum  (sort  of  Tipsy  Cake). 

Ice.     Bombes,  Vanilla  and  Raspberry. 

Dessert 

X. 

Soup.    Brunoise  (brown  and  thickened). 

Hors  d'(Euvre. 

Removes.     Salmon  Trout.     Caper  Sauce. 
Boast  Beef,  with  saut^  Potatoes. 

First  Course.     Nantes  Ducklings,  a  V  Orartge. 
Little  Cases  of  Perigueux  Fat  Livers. 

The  Boast  Meat.     Poulardes,  with  Water-cresses. 

Salad. 

Third  Course.     French  Beans,  h  VAnghise. 
Mac^oine  (Medley)  of  Fruits,  in  Maraschino. 

Ice.     Perfect,  Moka  Coffee. 
Dessert 

A  great  merit  in  the  above  Bills  of  Fare  is,  that  by 
simply  reducing  the  quantity  of  the  provisions  dressed, 

3a 


722  BILLS  OF  FABE. 

they  will  serve  just  as  well  for  a  dozen  persons  as  ftr  t 
couple  of  hundred.  Thej  are  based  on  the  oommoD- 
sense  principle,  that  the  number  of  guests  who  parfcakB 
of  a  dinner  should  have  no  influence  whatever  on  the 
number  of  the  different  dishes  composing  it.  The 
requisite  amount  of  food  is  obtained  by  increasing  the 
quantify  of  the  meats  already  determined  upon,  and  not 
by  increasing  their  variety.  The  serving  of  ioes  in  the 
depth  of  winter  is  a  qiiestion  of  fiishion,  taste— and 
wholesomeness. 

There  is  another  class  of  BOls  of  Fare  which  merits 
serious  consideration ;   namely,  those  recommended  to 
families  who  like  a  good  dinner  on  Sundajrs  and  Holi- 
days (acknowledged  by  the  Church  as  Feast-Dajs),  but 
who  still  wish  to  occupy  the  time  of  those  whose  duty 
is  to  serve  them  as  little  as  possible*    A  cold  Sunday 
dinner  suggests  itself  as  the  easiest  way  of  meefang  the 
difficulty ;   but,  besides  the  fact  that  something  hot  is 
pleasant,  wholesome,  and  sometimes  necessary,  during 
great  part  of  the  year,  in  the  climate  of  the   United 
Kingdom  people  cannot  live  in  winter,  even  in  the 
kitchen,  without  a  fire ;  and,  where  there  m  a  fire,  it 
would  be  carrying  "an  idea"  too  fiar  not  to  make  a 
moderate  and  reasonable   use  of  it     The   labour  of 
servants  can  be  very  much  eased  by  abstaining  firom 
dishes  which  require  much  Sunday  preparation.     Cold 
dishes  may  pleasantly  form  part  of  a  meal ;  they  do  so 
every  day  without  our  noticing  the  fact,  and  therefore, 
on  Sundays,  they  may  fairly  be  made  to  do  so  with 
a  purpose.     Few  cooks  will  object  to  warm  up  things 


BILLS  OF  FABB.  723 

ready  prepared  and  easj  to  manage^  or  to  do  things 
fresh  which  take  little  time  and  give  little  trouble.  The 
cook  need  not,  bj  thus  consulting  her  employers*  com- 
forts, either  neglect  her  religious  duties,  or  debar 
herself  from  the  sight  of  her  friends.  The  waiting 
may  be  simplified  by  laying  the  table  at  an  early  hour, 
and  by  ornamenting  it,  a  la  RusaCy  with  every  Ihing  to 
be  eaten  cold,  removing  all  (except  the  dessert)  as  soon 
as  it  is  done  with,  and  it  will  then  serve  for  the  kitchen 
supper ;  for  we  belong  to  the  school  of  economists  who 
do  not  give  white  bread  to  the  master  and  brown  to  the 
servant,  but  feed  the  whole  household  on  the  very  same 
joints,  only  taking  the  first  cut  ourselves.  In  short, 
we  would  suggest  a  compromise  between  the  absolutely 
cold  Sunday  Dinner  and  the  luxurious  and  elaborate 
Sunday  Feast.  The  hint  once  given,  the  housekeeper 
can  improve  on  the  miscellaneous  samples  offered  here. 

L 

Pease  Soup  (containing  mouthful-pieces  of  Hock  of 

Pork). 
Chopped  Green  Cabbage,  surrounded  by  Boiled  Sausages, 
and  supporting  Poached  Eggs;  an  Egg  and  a  Sausage 
for  each  person. 

Cold  Boast  Beef.     Horse-radish.     Pickles. 
Apple  Tart    Boiled  Custards. 

The  soup  will  only  require  warming  up.  Boil, 
drain,  and  squeeze  the  cabbages  the  day  before.  When 
wanted,  chop  them,  and  warm  up  in  a  stew-pan,  with  a 


724  BILLS  OF  FAKE. 

little  bntter,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  keep  them  hot  on  the 
iron  plate  of  your  stove. 

In  another  large  stew-pan  boil  your  sausages ;  when 
thej  are  done,  serve  yonr  cabbage  on  its  well-beated 
dish ;  surround  it  with  the  sausages,  and  poach  yonr 
eggs  in  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled.  Tbu  may 
garnish  with  small  bits  of  toasted  bread. 

11. 
Spring  Soup. 
Boiled  Salmon.     Plain  Melted  Butter.     Plaui-Bofled 

Potatoes. 

Cold  Veal  Pie. 

Cold  Roast  Mutton.     Cucumber.     Salad. 

Baked  Custard.    Open  Fruit- Jam  Tart. 

in. 

Scotch  Brose,  with  the  Chops  and  Pearl  Barley. 

Cold  Boast  Pork.     Pickles. 

Boiled  Asparagus.    Melted  Butter. 

Soused  Salmon  (reserved  &om  last  Sunday).     Salad. 

Mayonnaise  Sauce. 
Vol-au-Vent  of  Fruit     Baked  Custard. 

IV. 

Soup,  Tapioca,  in  good  Veal  Stock. 

Mutton  Chops,  a  la  Jardiniere. 

Cold  Boiled  Leg  of  Pork.     Pease  Pudding,  cold, 

garnished  with  Savoury  Jelly. 

Broiled  Fowls.     Mushroom  Sauce.     Mashed  Potatoes.. 

Bread-and-Butter  Pudding,  Cold. 


BILLS  OF  FAB9.  725 

The  veal  stock  to  be  made  on  Saturday ;  the  tapioca 
to  be  thrown  in  while  it  is  heating  up.  The  chops  to 
be  ready  trimmed  and  bread-crumbed  for  broiling ;  the 
ragodt  of  vegetables,  for  pouring  in  the  middle,  prepared, 
and  only  requiring  warming  up.  The  same  of  the 
Mushroom  Sauce  and  the  parboiled  fowls  for  broiling. 
The  same  dear  or  charcoal  fire  which  does  for  the  chops, 
will  do  for  the  fowls.  The  potatoes  may  be  mashed  over- 
night, and  put  into  small  tin  moulds.  These,  set  into 
the  oven,  will  not  take  long  to  heat  through  and  brown 
on  their  surface. 

V.     Ash-Wednesdayy  A, 

Common  Soup  Maigre. 

Boiled  Salt  Cod.     Egg  Sauce.     Parsnips. 

Matelote  of  Poached  Eggs. 

Stewed  Celery,  White. 

Eels  in  Jelly.     Salad. 

Welsh  Rabbits. 

Cod  steeped  two  days  before ;  eggs  boiled  hard, 
parsnips  parboiled,  and  celery  quite  boiled,  the  day 
before,  only  requiring  heating  up.  To  the  melted 
butter  remaining  from  the  egg  sauce,  milk  or  cream 
may  be  added  to  go  with  the  celeiy. 

VL     Ash'  Wednesday  y  B. 

Spring  Soup,  Meager. 

Cods'  Sounds  and  Tongues  Pie,  Cold. 

Poached  Eggs  on  a  Pur^  of  Sorrel,  garnished  with 

hot  Buttered  Toast. 


{ 


726  BILLS  OF  FARE. 

Large  Soles,  or  Bed  Gurdnard,  au  Gratbu 

Maccaroni  and  Cheese. 
Apple  Pie.     Baked  Costard  (both  cold). 

On  Tuesday,  make  the  Pie,  prepare  the  Sorrel 
ready  for  heating  up ;  have  the  required  number  of  egg^ 
counted  out  in  a  basket;  the  fish  ready  cleaned  for 
setting  into  the  oven ;  the  sweet  herbs  gathered,  and 
their  stalks  stuck  in  water ;  the  maccaroni  steeped,  and 
the  cheese  grated.  With  tlie  fire  lighted,  the  cooking- 
stove  oven  hot,  and  boiling  water  ready,  this  dinner  will 
not  take  long  to  serve. 

VII.      Good  Friday,  A. 

Pease  Soup,  Meager. 

Omelette  of  Sweet  Herbs. 

Boiled  Pike,  Stuffed.     Anchovy  Sauce. 

Cods'  Tongues,  Fried.     Egg  Sauce. 

Cold  Eel  Pie.     Salad. 

Tartlets.     Cheese  Cakes. 

The  day  before,  the  Soup  can  be  made ;  the  herbs 
for  the  omelette  gathered,  and  set  with  their  stalks  in 
water ;  the  eggs  put  aside  in  a  basket ;  the  pike  stnfled 
and  tied  in  a  round,  ready  to  put  into  the  fish-kettle ; 
the  Cods'  Tongues  boiled  and  put  away  cold ;  and  the 
eggs  boiled  hard  for  the  sauce.  The  same  saucepan  of 
melted  butter  will  make  the  anchovy  sauce  and  the  egg 
sauce. 


BILLS  OF  FABE.  727 

VIIL   Good  Friday  y  B. 

White  Soup,  Meager. 

Vol-au-Vent  of  Oysters  and  other  Fish. 

Baked  Cod,  or  Pike,  Stuffed  (hot). 

Sea-Kale.     White  Sauce.     Haricots,  h  la  PcuUtte. 

Collared  EeL     Salad. 
Fruit-Preserve  Omelette.     Trifle. 

On  Thursday  afternoon,  have  the  Yol-au-Yent  crust 
sent  in  from  the  pastry-cook,  and  make  the  rago&t  of 
Oysters  and  Fish.  Prepare  and  stuff  the  Cod  or  Pike, 
and  put  it  in  the  baking-dish,  dryy  adding  the  butter, 
Ac.,  just  before  setting  in  the  oven.  Wash  and  piok 
your  sea-kale  overnight,  and  wrap  it  in  a  damp  napkin. 
Boil  the  haricots,  and  make  the  poulette  sauce ;  you  will 
then  have  only  to  heat  up  the  two  together.  Gkt  out  the 
pot  of  fruit  preserve,  the  required  number  of  eggs,  and 
the  bowl  to  mix  them  in. 


IX.  Easter  Sunday. 

Ox-tail  Soup. 

Cold  Pigeon  Pie. 

Yeal  Kidney  and  Ham  Omelette. 

Cold  Boast  Hind-Quarter  of  Lamb.     Salad. 

Bhubarb  Tart     Creams.     Syllabubs.     Tipsy  Cake. 

The  Eddney*  and  Ham  Bagoilt,  for  putting  into  the 
Omelette,  made  over-night,  and  only  requiring  heat- 
ing up. 


728  BILU3  OF  FABB. 

X.  Easter  Mcfnday, 

Vermioelli  Soup,  of  any  stock  in  hancL 

Hashed  Lamb.     Plain-boiled  Potatoes. 

Cold  Boiled  Bee£     Pickles.     Salad. 

Cake.     Syllabub  under  the  Cow. 

The  SjUabub  to  be  made  on  Saturday  at  the  same 
time  with  those  for  Sunday.  The  salad  will  be  part  of 
the  purchase  for  Sunday's  use.  Undressed  salad  will 
keep  very  well  for  four-aod-tweniy  hours  in  a  bowl 
covered  with  a  plate  (or  in  a  damp  napkin)  in  a  oool 
place.  Where  there  is  a  garden,  it  takes  so  little  time 
to  cut  and  pick  a  salad. 

XL   Whit-Sunday. 
Green  Pease-Soup,  without  green  pease.     Toasted 

Bread-Dice. 

Vol-au-Vent  of  Sweetbreads,  Oysters,  and  Mushrooms. 

Stowed  Beef,  with  Vegetables,  Hot 

Cold  Roast  Fowl.     Cold  Tongue.     Salad. 

Green  Gooseberry  Tart     Creams.     Cake. 

Yol-au-Yent  and  its  Rago&t  made  on  Saturday, 
stewing  the  Beef  at  the  same  time.  When  the  latter  is 
cold,  the  fat  may  be  removed  from  the  gravy,  and  the 
dish,  when  served,  will  turn  out  all  the  better  for  having 
been  cooked  the  day  before.  With  a  good  working  stove, 
and  a  good  will,  this  dinner  may  be  sat  down  to  vrithin 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  of  the  time  of  beginning  to 
warm  up,  including  the  hot  plates  off  which  the  hot 
dishes  are  to  be  eaten. 


BILLS  OF  FABE»  729 

XIL 

Soup,  Giblet 

Calf 's-Head  Pie. 

Hashed  Duck  and  Green  Pease* 

Cold  Boiled  Leg  of  Pork,  in  slices.    Badishes  and  Small 

Salading. 
Raspberry  and  Currant  Tart     Creams. 

The  Calf 's-Head  Pie  and  the  Giblet  Soup  can  be 

made  on  Friday,  if  more  convenient.     The  boilings  of 

the  calf's  head,  if  used  for  the  soup,  will  make  it  all  the 

better.    On  Saturday,  roast  your  Ducks  (not  too  much) ; 

when  cold,  cut  them  into  handsome  pieces ;  season  and 

flour  them ;  prepare  the  gravy  ready  for  the  hash.     Cook 

the  Green  Pease  French  fiishion ;  if  there  is  plenty  of 

them,  the  surplus,  with  the  addition  of  a  chop  or  steak, 

will  help  otit  Saturday's  dinner ;  and  two  quarts  of  green 

pease  give  no  more  trouble  to  cook  (though  they  do  to 

shell)  than  one.     On  Sunday,  warm  up  separately  the 

ducks  in  their  gravy,  and  the  pease  in  theirs.    Arrange 

the  ducks  round  a  large,  hot  dish,  and  serve  the  pease  in 

the  middle.     You  may  garnish  with  toasted  bread,  or 

stewed  mushrooms. 

XIIL 

Soup,  Brown  Gravy. 

Oyster  Patties  (cold). 

Cold  Boast  Veal.     Savoury  Jelly.     Tongue. 

Windsor  Beans.     Boiled  White  Bacon  (hot). 

Boiled  Fowls.     Parsley  and  Butter.    New  Potatoes. 

(All  hot) 

Blancmange.     Sponge  Cake. 


730  BILLS  OF  FAfiE. 

On  Saturday,  parboil  ihe  Fowls  and  the  baeon; 
nnleas  particolarlj  objected  to,  or  the  baoon  is  very  salt, 
they  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  boiler.  Early  on 
Sunday  morning,  shell  the  beans,  and  set  tfaem  aside  in 
a  salad-bowl  covered  with  a  plate ;  gather  the  parsley  6r 
the  sauce,  and  put  its  stalks  in  water.  Wash  and  rob 
off  the  skin  from  the  new  potatoes,  and  leave  them  in  a 
basin  of  water  fresh  from  the  pump. 

When  the  Fowls  and  the  Bacon  have  had  a  boH  up, 
they  can  be  set  aside  to  make  room  on  the  fire  tat 
the  beans  and  potatoes ;  while  these  are  doing,  the  parsley 
can  be  chopped,  and  the  melted  butter  made  fi>r  the 


I 
I 

sauce. 
!  XIV. 


Soup  (Rice  and  Onion,  White)  made  with  Calf  s-Head 

Boilings. 

Cold  Boast  Beef.     New  Potatoes  (hot).     Pickles. 

Mutton-chops.     French  Beans  (hot),  French  fieushioii. 

Calf's  Head,  a  la  Tortue. 
Rum  Omelette. 

On  Saturday,  the  ragoiit  for  the  Cairs  Head  (already 
boiled)  can  be  made,  the  French  Beans  cooked  ready  for 
warming  up,  and  the  Mutton-chops  trimmed,  seasoned, 
and  bread-crumbed.  The  omelette  will  be  mixed  and 
cooked  while  the  first  part  of  the  dinner  is  being  eaten. 

XY.   Christmas  Day^faUmg  an  a  Sunday. 

Giblet  Soup. 
Cold  Boast  Beef.    Pickles.    Plain-boiled,  mealy  Potatoes. 


BILLS  OF  FARB.  731 

Boiled  Torkej,  the  crop  filled  with  veal  stnfBng,  the  body 

with  chestnuts.     Oyster  Sauce.     Mashed  Potatoes. 

Curried  Lobster.     Boiled  Rice. 

Hot  Plum  Pudding,  with  Wine  Sauce.    Cold  Mince  Pies. 

The  turkey  to  be  stuffed,  trussed,  and  parboiled  on 
Saturday,  taking  it  out  of  the  boilings,  which  you  will 
save.  By  putting  it  on  the  fire  again  on  Sunday,  with 
the  boflings  cold,  it  will  soon  be  enough.  Melted  butter 
for  the  sauce  made  over-night,  oyster^  opened  on  Sunday 
before  going  to  church,  and  set  aside.  By  hoWing  plenty 
of  potatoes  to  accompany  the  Beef,  the  surplus  can  be 
mashed  while  it  is  eaten.  Curry  prepared  and  rice 
steeped  over-night ;  rice  boiled  whOe  soup  and  beef  are 
being  eaten. 

Plum  Pudding  made  a  week  beforehand,  and  heated 
up.  Sweet  sauce  made  over-night;  wine  or  brandy 
added  on  warming  up. 


732  COKCLUSIONS, 


xxn. 
CONCLUSIONS. 

AFFECTING  SEDENTARY,  PROFESSIONAI^  AND 

LITERARY  PERSONS. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  labour^  bodily  and  mentsl, 
differing  widely  in  their  effects  on  the  homan   frame. 
There  are  likewise  the  same  two  kinds  of  exercise  ;  nsmxAjj 
exercise  of  the  corporeal  pow^ers,  and  exercise   of  the 
intellectual  faculties.     By  exercise,  we  mean  action  of 
any  kind  voluntarily  undertaken,  and  continued  so  I<N]g 
only  as  it  is  pleasurable,  and  ceasing  the  moment  a 
person  has  taken  enough  of  it  to  his  liking ;  whereas, 
labour  is  exertion  prolonged,  under  either  physical  or 
moral  compulsion,  for  definite  periods,  not  always  in 
conformity  with  the  labourer's  tastes  and  wishes,  but 
obliged  to  be  continued  during  those  periods,  whether 
the  pleasurable  point  has  been  passed  or  not. 

The  reader  will  readily  call  to  mind  instances  of  the 
difference  between  bodily  labour  and  corporeal  exercise. 
Galley-slaves  were  made  to  toil  at  the  oar,  harder  and 
longer  than  was  agreeable  to  their  feelings ;  boating  is 
the  act  of  playing  with  that  implement,  to  the  extent 
which  suits  the  boatman's  convenience.  It  is  true  that 
in  boat-races,  and  in  the  preliminary  training,  exercise, 
taken  in  excess,  may  be  converted  into  labour;  or,  in 


CONCLUSIONS.  733 

other  words,  you  may  make  a  toil  of  a  pleasure, — which 
only  renders  the  distinction  more  clear. 

The  same  of  mental  exercise  and  labonr.     Creatures 
gifted  with  an  intellect  cannot  let  it  lie  utterly  dormant. 
They  exercise  it,  therefore,  with  animated  discussion^ 
interesting  inquiries,  pleasant  projects.     Although  cheer- 
ful talk  will  be  only  an  exercise  of  the  tongue  and  tho 
powers  that  guide  it,  an  elaborate  speech  may  become  a 
real  labour.     However  amusing  may  be  the  process  of 
observation,  research,  and  speculation,  the  putting  of  the 
result  on  paper  in  orderly,  logical,  and  producible  form 
will  often  turn  out  a  laborious  task.     The  reader  who 
skims  through  a  scientific  treatise  which  gives  the  most 
recent  views  of  some  difficult  subject,  may  be  fairly 
said  to  exercise  his  mind;  while  the  author,  who  had  to 
write  it  in  a  given  time,  amidst  other  avocations,  with 
facts  to  discover  and  conclusions  to  draw,  will  probably 
have  undergone  actual  labour. 

It  is  curious  that  most  people  whose  experience  is 
limited  to  work  executed  by  the  limbs,  should  feel  a 
difficulty  in  admitting  that  mental  labour  is  labour  at  all. 
Who  are  the  objects  of  envy  to  the  working  class? 
Emperors,  ministers  of  state,  victorious  generals;  dis- 
tinguished, popular,  and  marvellously  productive  literary 
persons :  of  whose  heavy  burdens  and  ceaseless  travail 
they  do  not  entertain  the  slightest  conception.  Work 
performed  sitting  in  an  easy-chair,  and  in  the  tempered 
air  and  light  of  a  comfortable  study,  cannot,  according 
to  their  ideas,  be  allowed  to  pass  as  serious  work.  They 
can  see  in  it  nothing  but  the  dolce/ar  niente^  the  delicious 


i 


734  CONCLUSIONS. 

profession  of  nothing  to  do.  Monej  earned  by  the  pa 
is,  with  them,  synonjnnous  with  money  picked  up  in  tk 
streets.  An  industrious  Parisian  refused  to  believe  iisei 
Scribe,  the  dramatist,  had  made  a  large  forttine  sd^r 
by  play-writing ;  because,  "  If  he  had,  every  body  dse 
would  do  the  same.'' 

On  the  other  hand,  nobody  holds  that  bodily  labour 
is  not  labour.  Nobody,  that  can  help  it,  wishes  to  Utb 
by  bodily  labour.  There  are  even  whole  races  and 
communities  of  men,  as  the  Jews,  who  contrive  to  escape 
it  Fair-weather  exercise  in  moderation,  under  pleasant 
circumstances,  all  accept;  but  manual  toil,  as  a  ha- 
bitual, compulsory,  and  perennial  means  of  livelihood, 
no  one.  All  who  do  so  work,  look  forward  to,  and  hope 
for,  the  time  when  they  shall  be  able  to  live  without  it 

And  yet  ordinary  labour  (out-door,  especially),  when 
not  excessive,  and  when  wholesome  food  is  obtained  in 
sufficient  quantity^  is  particularly  healthfid  in  its  ten- 
dency; for  not  only  does  it  aid  the  circulation,  and 
apply  the  great  stimulants  of  au:  and  light,  but  it  thereby 
insures  the  proper  assimilation  of  the  whole  amount  of 
aliment  that  is  taken  in.  For,  it  cannot  be  too  strongly 
urged,  it  is  not  the  food  eaten,  but  the  food  digested, 
which  nourishes.  Food,  however  rich,  passing  away 
undigested  and  unassimilated,  might  as  well  have  been 
chaff  or  chips,  for  any  good  the  eater  derives  from  it. 

Besides  those  who  labour  only  with  their  limbs,  and 
those  who  labour  only  with  tlieir  brains,  there  is  a  mixed 
and  intermediate  class,  whose  professions  compel  them 
to  work  with  both.     Happy  are  they,  perhaps,  without 


GONCLUBIONB.  735 

knowing  it ;  for  one  kind  of  labour,  one  set  of  influences, 
oorreots  the  untoward  tendencies  of  the  other.     Exercise 
of  the  muscles  calms  irritation  of  the  nerves,  and  relieves 
the  brain  of  any  undue  supply  of  blood.    The  stomach 
indirectly  profits  by  it,  and  performs  its  functions  with 
greater  ease.     Fresh  air,  one  of  the  best  of  calmers,  acts 
as  a  remedy  against  sleeplessness ;  and  the  sunshine  radi-« 
ated  from  the  Orb  of  Day  brings  with  it  sundry  other 
influences,  which   we  acknowledge  rather  from  their 
beneficent  effects  than  from  what  we  have  yet  learnt 
about  their  nature.     Such  persons — ^those  employed  on 
railways,  for  instance — may  be  hard  worked  and  much 
exposed  ;  but,  with  proper  precautions  of  clothing  and 
regimen,  their  work  and  their  exposure  wiD  help  them 
to  enjoy  far  better  health  than  if  their  destiny   had 
chained  them  to  the  accounts  of  the  office  or  the  com- 
positions of  the  study. 

Convalescents  will  generally,  and  wisely,  be  guided 
in  the  food  they  take  by  their  medical  adviser;  their 
relatives  and  attendants  will  see  to  its  being  properly 
administered.  After  the  crisis  of  an  illness  has  passed, 
and  the  patient  has  safely  got  round  Danger  Comer, 
it  ofi»n  requires  very  little  to  set  him  going  in  the  right 
way  forward ;  but  it  requires  that  little  to  be  offered  at 
the  nick  of  time,  and  to  be  repeated,  with  proper  varia- 
tion, at  frequent  and  regular  intervals.  Friends,  in 
their  zeal  and  anxiety,  are  apt  to  urge  the  taking  of  too 
much  nourishment  at  once;  but  the  grand  secret  of 
nursing  convalescents  is,  to  give  them  little  and  often. 
They  must  not  be  put  too  forward,  nor  be  tried  beyond 


736  CONCLUSIONS. 

iheir  strength  in  any  way — beyond  their  strength  of 
digestion,  their  strength  of  bearing  sitting  up,  or  their 
strength  of  attending  to  serious  business. 

Convalescents  may  take  h'ght  nourishment  with  ad- 
vantage early  in  the  morning,  as  soon  as  they  awake— an 
egg,  for  instance,  beat  up  with  sugar  and  a  little  rose- 
water,  or  even  with  milk,  if  the  stomach  will  bear  it,  and 
perhaps  with  a  bit  of  sponge  cake  soaked  in  it  If  the 
patient  is  so  weak  as  still  to  require  watching,  a  little 
good,  warm  beef-tea  or  chicken  broth  should  be  ready  to 
give,  in  the  case  of  his  waking  during  the  dead  of  the 
night,  when  the  vital  powers  are  at  the  very  lowest,  and 
the  great  majority  of  deaths  occur.  An  orange  to  suck, 
or  lemonade  to  sip,  though  innutritions,  are  refreshing 
and  antifebrile ;  and  whatever  tends  to  give  tone  to  the 
system  is  a  step  made  towards  the  recovery  of  strength. 

The  effects  of  easily  digested,  strengthening  food — 
such  as  light  puddings,  custard,  meat  soup,  delicate  fish 
— ^may  be  enhanced  by  serving  them  with  what  may  be 
caUed  "moral  sauce;"  by  contriving  agreeable  little 
surprises ;  by  having  something  sent  unexpectedly,  the 
moment  something  is  wished  for,  from  the  pastry-cookV^ 
as  a  present  from  a  neighbour,  or  a  token  of  remembrance 
from  a  distant  friend.  The  snack  (for  it  should.be  no 
more,  until  strength  retiurns)  will  be  still  more  highly 
relished,  if  accompanied  by  a  pleasant  bit  of  news,  an 
amusing  note  (which  may  be  caused  to  bo  written),  the 
prospect  of  some  desired  event  about  to  happen,  or  some 
object  pleasing  both  to  the  sight  and  the  spirit,  such  as 
an  early  flower  or  fruit.     Even  the  outside  of  a  new  and 


CONCLUSIONS.  737 

interesting  book,  which  must  not  be  read  until  permission 
is  given,  will  have  its  beneficial  effect.  In  all  these  de- 
tails, the  instinct  of  affection  will  find  its  way,  and  will 
surelj  work  wonders  in  the  end,  provided  that  it  care- 
fully remembers  that  The  more  Haste,  the  worse  Speed ; 
and  that  Slow  and  Steady  wins  the  Bace. 

The  dietary  for  Sedentary  Persons  cannot  be  con- 
sidered without  dividing  them  into  two  widely  differing 
classes ;  namely,  those  who  have  nothing,  and  those  who 
liave  something  (perhaps  a  great  deal),  to  do.  To  the 
former,  the  simplest  advice  to  be  given  would  be,  ^^  Cease 
to  be  sedentary;  be  up  and  stirring."  And  thankfiil 
would  hundreds  be  could  they  only  follow  it.  For  indo- 
lence is  not  the  sole  cause  of  inactivity.  General  debility, 
lameness,  or  other  bodily  infirmity,  keep  many  at  home 
who  would  otherwise  be  often  abroad  and  out-of-doors, 
not  to  mention  that  fi-equent  depression  of  spirits  and 
disinclination  to  go  far  firom  the  house  which  by  no 
means  amounts  to  actual  hypochondria  or  mental  disease. 

As  a  rule,  sedentaiy  persons  should  take  light,  nutri- 
tious food,  in  quite  moderate  quantities,  at  not  long 
intervals  of  time.  By  eating  too  heartily  or  too  fre- 
quently, they  tire  the  digestive  organs,  giving  them  no 
rest,  and  indigestion  surely  follows.  On  the  other  hand, 
by  fasting  too  long,  the  stomach  grows  faint  and  weak, 
appetite  is  gone,  less  nutriment  is  taken  in,  and  that  little 
less  easily  digested.  Individuals,  otherwise  similarly 
circumstanced,  differ  so  much  in  the  quantity  and  fre- 
qnency  of  meals  that  suit  them,  that  each  person  must  be, 
in  a  great  measure,  guided  by  his  own  experience  and 

3b 


738  CONCLUSIONS. 

feelings,  keeping  always  on  the  safe  side,  by  neither  mak- 
ing the  meals  too  heavy  nor  the  interval  between  them 
too  long. 

Dr.  Edward  Smith  address^  excellent  advice  to 
those  who  lead  a  sedentary  life :  "  Persons  of  sedentary 
habits  are  liable  to  become  either  thin,  feeble,  and  dys- 
peptic, or  else  to  grow  stout,  according  as  the  original 
state  of  their  constitution  and  the  attendant  conditions 
of  life  have  led.  A  certain  amount  of  exertion  is  neces- 
sary to  enable  a  person  to  breathe  the  pure  air  in  sufiS- 
eient  quantity  to  carry  on  tlie  function  of  digestion  and 
other  vital  actions  in  activity  and  vigour ;  and  when  this 
is  not  obtained,  the  quantity  of  food  which  is  supplied 
must  be  reduced,  or  fulness  of  the  system,  or  derange- 
ment of  digestion  and  general  health,  will  follow.  If  tihe 
reduction  of  the  appetite  for,  and  the  digestion  of,  food  be 
greater  than  the  necessary  wants  of  the  system  can  toler- 
ate, the  former  result  occurs ;  but  if  they  remain  good, 
the  system  will,  at  least  for  a  time,  store  up  fat  within  it, 
and  the  person  will  become  stout. 

'^  When,  with  the  sedentary  occupation,  the  person 
becomes  thin,  feeble,  and  dyspeptic,  it  is  necessary  that 
the  same  plan  should  be  adopted  which  has  been  laid 
down  for  persons  of  feeble  constitution,  viz.  the  frequent 
supplies  of  small  quantities  of  hot  food ;  and,  as  animal 
food  excites  the  vital  actions  more  than  vegetable  food^ 
it  should  be  preferred,  and  the  quantity  of  it  gradually 
increased.  There  are  many  in  this  state  who  hesitate 
to  take  milk  and  eggs,  from  having  felt  uncomfortable 
after  their  use ;  but  they  should  be  encouraged  to  take 


CONCLUSIONS.  739 

them,  nevertheless,  in  the  form  which  is  least  disagree- 
able to  their  taste.     Milk  in  puddings  or  with  chooolate, 
and  eggs  fried  or  made  into  herb  omelettes,  are  the  best 
forms  of  food.     Meat  is  not  objected  to ;  but  care  in  its 
cooking  and  flavonring,  and  variety  of  meat  (exdnding 
pork,  and  perhaps  veal  and  fish),  are  necessary.     Meat 
should  be  eaten  twice  a  day ;  and,  at  the  tea  meal,  potted 
meats,  ham,  or  eggs,  should  be  added.     Curries  are 
valuable,  and  all  the  meat  should  be  hot,  fresh,  and  sea- 
soned.    So  long  as  the  sedentary  habit  is  continued,  the 
total  quantity  of  food  which  is  supplied  should  be  less 
than  would  be  requisite  imder  other  conditions ;  but  it 
should  be  largely  of  an  animal  nature.    It  will,  however, 
often  be  necessary  to  seek  the  medical  adviser,  in  order 
to  keep  the  functions  of  the  body  in  a  state  as  consistent 
with  health  as  may  be  possible ;  and,  abpve  all  things, 
arrangements  should  be  made  by  which  exertion  of  some- 
what a  severe  kind  may  be  taken  at  one  or  more  regu- 
lated periods  daily,  and  thus  obviate  the  ill  efiects  of  the 
sedentary  occupation." — Practical  Dietary. 

Unoccupied  sedentaries  have  a  great  advantage  over 
those  who  have  their  living  to  get,  in  this :  they  can  take 
a  substantial  midday  meal  or  dinner,  accompanied  by  a 
moderate  dose  of  fermented  beverage,  both  which  the 
others  are  obliged  to  abstain  from — if  for  no  other  reason, 
for  fear  of  the  flagging  attention,  or  even  drowsiness, 
which  such  indulgence  is  apt  to  induce.  They  cannot, 
in  fact,  really  dine,  though  they  may  call  it  dinner. 
They  make  a  light  meal)  often  without  meat  or  even  eggs; 
their  beverage  is  water,  or  tea  or  coffee,  which  suits 


740  C0NCLIT6I0NS. 

them  better  then  than  at  a  later  period  of  the  day,  the 
wakeftdness  it  causes  being  now  advantageous — ^the  con- 
trary to  what  it  would  be  at  night.  Such  persons,  to 
keep  up  their  strength,  must  make  up  at  an  early  sup- 
per (or  late  dinner)  for  the  sparing  allowance  taken  at 
dinner  or  luncheon.  They  will  then  entirely  abstain 
from  tea  and  coffee,  and  make  good,  sound  beer  or  wine- 
and-water,  with  perhaps  a  glass  of  wine  pure,  their 
beverage.  This  moderate  amount  of  stimulant  will  calm 
the  nerves  and  conduce  to  sleep,  especially  if  they  can 
screw  out  the  time  for  a  little  out-door  exercise  before 
their  evening  meal.  An  hour's  walk,  even  in  the  dark, 
or  in  ihe  rain  with  an  umbrella  and  a  cloak,  will  wonder- 
fully freshen  the  spirits,  sharpen  the  appetite,  and  aid  the 
digestion. 

Sedentary  persons  will,  of  course,  attend  to  the 
regularity  of  the  more  obvious  fimctions  of  their  frame ; 
they  are  specially  urged  to  take  great  care  to  keep  up  the 
action  of  their  skin.  Because  the  insensible  transpiration 
escapes  our  notice,  it  is  not  the  less  important  to  healtli. 
It  carries  off,  unconsciously  and  without  our  notice,  what 
would  otherwise  soon  produce  disease.  Persons  still 
ignorant  of  the  important  pai*t  which  the  Skin  plays  in 
the  animal  economy,  cannot  do  better  than  study  atten- 
tively the  late  Dr.  Andrew  Combe's  admirable  Principles 
of  Physiology  applied  to  Health  and  Educaiunu  There 
they  will  learn  the  close  relations  which  exist  between 
the  Skin,  the  Lungs,  and  the  Bowels ;  how  one  acts  upon, 
relieves,  assists,  or  deranges  the  functions  of  the  other. 
There  is  little  doubt  that  Dr.  Ck)mbe's  valuable  but  pre- 


CONCLUSIONS,  741 

carious  life  was  prolonged  by  due  attention  to  the  func- 
tions of  the  skin,  and  the  whole  of  what  he  has  so  clearly 
written  on  this  subject  is  particularly  worthy  of  serious 
study. 

Sedentary  persons,  debarred  fjrom  throwing  off  noxious 
particles  from  their  frame  by  the  free  action  of  the  lungs 
and  skin  induced  by  out-door  exercise,  should  therefore 
keep  the  latter  in  full  play  by  the  daily  use  of  sponge- 
baths,  cold  or  tepid.  If  the  warm  reaction  does  not 
speedily  follow  the  application  of  cold  water  to  the  sur- 
face of  their  body,  after  it  is  well  dried  and  rubbed,  it 
will,  in  that  case,  be  more  prudent  to  make  use  of  tepid. 
In  very  severe  winter  weather,  the  sponge-bath  need  not 
be  employed  more  than  every  other  day,  or  thrice  a 
week,  but  never  less  than  twice  a  week  by  persons  lead- 
ing a  sedentar}''  life.  This  simple,  cleanly,  and  whole- 
some measure  will  often  save  them  from  attacks  of  gout, 
irritation  of  the  lungs,  dysentery,  offensive  breath,  and 
feverish  colds,  which  result  from  the  disturbance  of  the 
balance  of  the  natural  secretions.  When  the  skin  fails 
to  do  its  work,  other  organs  have  to  do  the  work  for  it ; 
and  they  do  do  it  at  first,  but  not  so  well ;  because,  as 
disobliging  servants  say,  "it  is  not  their  place."  By 
continuing  to  do  it,  their  powers  are  overtaxed,  and 
various  disorders  of  the  system  are  the  necessary  conse- 
quence* It  is  scarcely  possible  to  exaggerate  the  import- 
ance of  keeping  the  skin  in  proper  action;  and  this,  in 
persons  enjoying  moderate  health,  may  be  nearly  insured 
by  the  daily  use  of  the  sponge-bath  and  proper  clothing. 

There  have  been  medical  men  who,  assuming  that 


742  CONCLUSIONS, 

the  cause  or  principle  of  gout  is  of  an  acid  nature,  have 
prescribed  alkaline  baths — i,e.  hot  water  with  washer- 
woman's soda  dissolved  in  it — as  a  remedy,  or,  rather,  a 
prophylactic  And  the  results,  gouty  patients  say,  have 
been  favourable.  We  ourselves,  with  some  personal 
experience  of  the  matter,  doubt  much  whether  the  alkali 
has  the  special  effect  attributed  to  it  In  the  first  place, 
it  is  not  proved  that  gout  consists  in  an  acid  humour ; 
it  may  not  be  a  humour,  nor  even  an  entity  at  all ;  like 
heat,  it  may  merely  be  a  mode  of  motion — a  form  of 
inflammatory  action;  in  which  case,  there  being  no 
acid  to  neutralise,  the  alkali  cannot  combine  with  what 
does  not  exist.  But,  as  the  addition  of  soda  renders 
water  smooth  and  soft,  and  more  efficacious  in  its  cleans^- 
inff  efiects,  there  is  little  doubt  that  water  so  prepared 
makes  an  excellent  bath,^-especially  for  persons  who  do 
not  use  sponge-baths  frequently.  And  that  we  hold  to 
be  the  probable  explanation  of  the  fact,  if  it  be  one. 

As  to  persons  who,  like  the  modem  Bomans,  are 
washed  from  head  to  foot  twice  only  during  their  sojourn 
on  earth, — ^as  soon  as  they  are  bom,  and  after  their 
death, — ^the  wonder  is  they  are  so  well  as  they  are. 
When  such  persons,  by  accident,  do  get  a  bath,  the 
removal  of  their  crust  of  dirt  feels  to  them  like  the 
loss  of  an  article  of  clothing.  But  sedentary  persons 
especially  ought  to  observe  the  strictest  cleanliness ;  not 
only  with  regard  to  what  meets  iStie  view,  but  throughout 
the  whole  surface  of  their  bodily  frame.  Like  the  Indian, 
although  in  another  sense,  they  should  consider  them- 
selves as  ^^  all  face.*' 


CONCLUSIONS.  743 

Many  hold  that  sedentary  people  will  help  their 
digestion  by  taking  only  a  very  limited  quantity  of 
flaid ;  this  is  true,  so  far  as  that  they  expend  less  floid 
than  persons  much  in  the  open  air.  During  out-door 
exercise  in  warm  weather,  or  with  dry  winds  blowing, 
the  evaporation  is  considerable;  and  the  sensation  of 
thirst  is  providentially  given  to  warn  us  to  supply  the 
loss.  But  abstinence  from  liquids  must  not  be  carried 
too  far,  even  by  the  most  stay-at-home  individual. 
Enough  drink  must  be  taken  during  the  twenty-four 
hours  to  allow  of  a  sufficient  secretion  from  the  kidneys : 
it  is  through  them  that  the  waste  of  animal  food  and 
the  worn-out  material  of  the  tissues  are  mainly  elimin- 
ated from  the  body ;  and  if,  through  a  deficient  supply 
of  fluid,  the  drainage  of  the  system,  by  their  agency,  is 
imperfect,  the  germs  of  disorder  will  accumulate  until 
ihey  manifest  their  presence  by  producing  illness.  Nature 
and  common  sense  will  mostly  indicate  the  extent  to 
which  thirst  may  be  allayed. 

Professional  persons  are  placed  in  such  various  con- 
ditions, that  it  is  not  easy  to  speak  of  them  in  general 
terms ;  one  circumstance,  however,  is  common  to  them, 
— ^want  of  time  for  repose  and  refreshment,  and  full 
employment  of  their  time  during  the  middle  of  the  day, 
t.  e.  the  greater  part  of  the  morning,  and  all  the  after- 
noon. This  points  to  the  desirableness  of  making  a 
breakfast  which  shall  be  nutritious  without  being  heavy, 
and  concentrated  in  substance  rather  than  bulky  in  mass. 
It  may  include  eggs,  delicate  bacon,  mutton  or  lamb 
chops,  cold  meat  pie,  kidneys,  cold  fowl,  game,  or  any 


744  CONCLUSIONS. 

first-rate,  delicate,  and  not  greasy  fish.    Beef,  hbt  or  cold, 
is  too  heavy  at  breakfast  for  persons  whose  brains  want 
to  retain  all  their  energies  instead  of  lending  a  part  of 
them  to  help  the  stomach  to  do  its  work.     Fruit,  pre- 
seryes,  or  marmalade  (except  as  adjuncts),  are  not  suffi- 
ciently nutritious.     Scotch  break&sts  are  too  substantial  ^ 
for  our  climate,  except  for  persons  who  spend  the  morn- 
ing out  of  doors, — they  are  apt  to  induce  a  feeUng  of 
drowsiness,  until  their  digestion  is  three -parts  com- 
pleted.    The  French  d^jeCtner  a  la  fourchette  is  both  too 
heavy,  and  is  eaten  at  too  late  an  hour,  to  suit  pro- 
fessional persons  in  England.     It  approaches  too  nearly 
to  a  hot  lunch,  and  is  partaken  of  all  the  more  freely 
from  not  having  been  preceded  by  a  breakfast     Where 
every  body  (professional  and  business  men  included)  takes 
his  d^eCiner  a  la  fourchette^  or  dines  at  noon,  the  custom 
may  bo  complied  with  without  inconvenience;  but,  in 
England,  such  a  serious  sit-down  meal,  at  such  an  hoar, 
is  difficult  for  busy  people  to  take.     It  involves  a  loss  of 
time  which  they  can  ill  afford ;  and  it  often  brings  on 
(especially  if  fermented  liquors  are  taken  with  it)  a  list- 
lessness  and  a  disinclination  to  work,  the  struggle  with 
which  causes  a  painftd  effort     It  raises,  in  fact,  tlie 
important  question  of  Luncheon  for  Professional  and 
Business  People. 

Busy  men,  in  short,  rpust  dine  late :  they  are  obliged 
to  take  their  principal  meal  after  the  brunt  of  their  work 
Is  over.  They  cannot  breakfast  very  substantially ;  they 
cannot  lunch  or  dine  with  their  wives  and  children  at  one 
o'clock;  what,  then,  are  they  to  do  to  support  nature 


CONCLUSIONS.  745 

daring  that  long  interval  ?  For,  without  some  refresh- 
ment containing  moTQfood  than  the  cnstomaiy  biscuit 
and  glass  of  sheny,  the  constitution  must  eventually 
suffer. 

"  There  are  many  merchants'  and  banking  houses,*' 
says  Dr.  Edward  Smith,  "where  no  opportunity  is 
allowed  to  the  clerks  or  salesmen  to  take  food  until  five 
or  six  o'clock  at  night  This  seems  to  me  a  most 
tyrannical  exercise  of  power,  and  one  which  I  have 
known  to  exert  the  most  prejudicial  influence  over  the 
health  of  young  men.  A  certain  interval,  however  small, 
should  be  allowed  for  dinner ;  and  facilities  for  obtaining 
suitable  food  should  be  afforded.  If,  however,  the  clerk 
so  circumstanced  will  provide  himself  daily  with  a  cold 
meat  pie,  or  with  meat  sandwiches,  and  milk,  which  he 
may  perhaps  be  able  to  warm,  he  may  find  opportunity 
to  eat  them,  and  thus  make  a  moderately  good  dinner." 

Again :  "  The  absence  of  a  good  midday  meal,  in  the 
case  of  business  men,  is  founded  upon  the  want  of  facility 
for  obtaining  it,  or  of  time  in  which  to  eat  it,  or  on  the 
sense  of  imfitness  for  clear  thought  which  follows  it ;  but 
it  is  contrary  to  reason  that  health  can  be  uniformly 
maintained  at  its  highest  pitch  when,  after  an  early 
breakfast,  there  is  continued  and  close  application  to 
business  until  from  four  to  six  p.m.,  without  relaxation, 
and  almost  without  food.  We  have  copied  the  French 
habit  of  late  dining,  but  have  omitted  its  essential  accom- 
paniment— ^the  substantial  ddjedner  a  la  fourchette, 

"  The  objection  which  may  be  fairly  taken  against 
late  dinners  is  veiy  greatly  lessened  if  a  sufficiently  good 


746  CONCLUSIONS. 

lanch  be  eaten  in  ihe  middle  of  the  day.  All  such  persons 
shonld  take  at  least  meat  and  bread  as  a  lonch :  the 
former  to  the  extent  of  three  ounces,  in  the  form  of 
sandwiches  or  otherwisey  accompanied  by  a  glass  of  wine 
(if  that  be  usually  taken),  or  simply  by  water,  and  that 
restricted  to  the  smallest  quantity  which  is  consistent 
with  a  sense  of  ease  during  digestion.  If  the  labour 
which  is  to  follow  be  rather  bodily  than  mental,  it  would 
be  better  to  take  a  hot  chop,  or  a  supply  of  other  hot 
meat,  with  bread,  and  perhaps  a  potato,  so  as  to  make 
the  meal  somewhat  as  valuable  as  a  dinner.'^ 

The  very  best  midday  refreshment  for  busy  people, 
with  the  least  possible  interruption  of  their  pursuiis,  is  a 
basin  of  good  soup :  such  as  canaommd,  with  vermicelli 
or  maccaroni,  mock-turtle,  ox-tail,  ^blet,  or  mouthiul 
pease  soup  (which  see).  All  these  combine  the  advan- 
tages of  being  hot,  of  taking  little  time  to  eat,  and  of 
containing  much  nutriment  in  a  small  bulk,  with  some- 
times a  little  of  the  vinous  element,  combined  in  such 
moderate  proportion  as  to  sustain  without  exciting  or 
troubling  the  intellectual  powers.  Bread  may  be  soaked 
in  any  of  the  above.  If  they  cause  thirst,  it  may  be 
allayed  with  a  wine-glass  of  toast-and-water,  or  a  litde 
cold  tea. 

Another  speedily  despatched  and  simple  hot  luncheon 
may  be  made  off  a  couple  of  soft-boiled  eggs  and  bread- 
and-butter,  with  a  cup  of  savoury  mutton  broth,  beef- 
tea,  or  any  good  stock  broth  as  the  beverage.  But  indis- 
pensable refreshment  has  often  to  be  taken  in  places 
where  there  is  no  fire  and  no  kitchen  to  cook  or  warm 


CONCLUSIONS.  747 

up  lihe  simplest  article  of  food.  In  that  case,  the  pro- 
fessional worker  most  fall  back  on  sandwiches  containing 
plenty  of  meat,  with  a  fair  proportion  of  fitt,  nicely  seasoned, 
or  made  with  a  combination  of  salt  and  fresh  meat,  such 
as  salt  beef  and  fowl,  veal  and  ham,  mutton  and  tongue, 
pork  and  sliced  sausage.  For  variety,  a  piece  out  of  a  cold 
cairs-head  pie,  with  a  roll,  will  serve ;  or  a  cold  roast 
fowl  cut  up  into  small  joints,  and  accompanied  by  bread 
and  a  pinch  of  salt  screwed  up  in  a  paper.  The  latter 
affords  an  excellent  snack  in  respect  to  the  substance  of 
which  it  consists,  but  has  the  disadvantage  of  requiring 
either  a  knife  and  fork  and  plate,  or  to  be  picked  with 
the  fingers,  neither  of  which  are  permissible  under  many 
circumstances  when  support  is  needed. 

When  broth,  or  otlier  warm  unfermented  drink,  is 
not  to  be  had,  one  of  the  nicest  afternoon  beverages  for 
busy-minded  people  is  cold  tea,  ready  sugared  and  milked, 
and  carried  in  a  pint  bottle.  It  is  a  great  favoarite  on 
such  occasions  with  many  sportsmen,  who  find  that  even 
the  small  quantity  of  alcohol  contained  in  a  glass  of  ale  or 
porter  affects  their  quickness  of  sight  and  surety  of  aim. 
Soda-water  (plain,  without  wine  or  brandy)  answers 
well,  but  has  the  reputation  of  having  a  lowering  ten- 
dency; effervescent  lemonade  is  too  sweet  and  syrupy; 
ginger  beer  (when  not  too  gingered)  is  better  than 
either.  Theory  would  obviously  recommend  milk  for 
such  occasions ;  but  many  adult  stomachs  cannot  bear  it 
even  when  boiled,  finding  it  heavy,  indigestible,  and  the 
cause  of  thirst, — as  is  also  frequently  the  case  with  French 
caf4  au  laity  or  boiled  milk  and  strong  cofiee  mixed 


748  CONCLUSIONS. 

together  in  equal  proportions,  or  with  a  preponderance 
of  the  milk.  Milk,  too,  does  not  carry  well,  turn- 
ing sour  in  summer,  and  separating  itself  from  the 
cream  in  all  weathers.  Cold,  weak  tea  will  be  found 
to  have  few  superiors  for  the  purpose  now  under  con- 
sideration. 

After  a  hard  working  day,  sustained  by  refreshment, 
a  hearty  but  not  a  heavy  dinner,  nutritious  and  well- 
seasoned,  with  not  too  many  dishes,  may  be  fairly  allowed 
as  a  recompense  for  the  labour  undergone,  supposing  that 
no  mental  work  has  to  be  done  in  the  evening.  But  if  the 
brain  has  still  two  or  three  hours'  occupation  before  it, 
then  for  the  dinner  it  will  be  prudent  to  substitute  a  meat- 
tea,  not  more  substantial  than  is  necessary  to  prevent 
exhaustion ;  and,  after  the  work  is  over,  to  take  a  light 
supper,  with  beer,  ale,  wine-and-water,  or  other  accus- 
tomed stimulant,  in  moderation.  By  this  arrangement, 
the  strength  will  be  sustained,  and  sleeplessness  (often 
caused  by  the  recent  activity  of  the  brain)  will  be  avoided. 
There  is  no  reason  why  a  few  Tlhiffs  of  a  cigar  should  not 
be  afterwards  resorted  to  as  a  further  tranquilliser,  if  in 
accordance  with  the  person's  habits. 

Busy  people  often  get  an  indigestion  by  eating  too 
fast;  in  vulgar  phrase,  they  "bolt"  their  food,  without 
masticating,  and  almost  without  tasting  it.  They  are 
wrong  to  read  letters  or  newspapers  at  meal-times,  which 
call  off  their  attention  from  the  still  more  important  act 
of  repairing  the  waste  of  their  bodily  and  intellectual 
energies.  As  their  time  for  refreshment  is  limited,  they 
should  never  have  to  wait  for  their  meals,  w^liich  ought 


CONCLUSIONS.  749 

to  be  ready  at  the  minute.*  It  is  better  they  should  eat 
in  company,  and  that,  of  com*se,  agreeable  company. 
The  remarks  they  hear,  as  well  as  those  they  make,  will 
prolong  the  process  of  tasting  and  swallowing.  fTo  con- 
siderate wife  or  child  will  select  the  family  table  as  the 
place  to  communicate  unpleasant  news,  dilate  on  griev- 
ances, or  make  complaints,  however  reasonable.  Some 
other  opportunity  will  be  chosen.  It  is  the  interest  of 
the  family,  as  it  ought  to  be,  and  mostly  is,  their  wish, 
that  the  mainstay  of  the  household  should  enjoy  his  hasiy 
meals  with  cheerfulness  and  peace  of  mind. 

Professional  persons  who  are  fully  employed  cannot 
afford  to  reduce  themselves  by  any  depletive  or  weaken- 
ing course  of  diet  or  medicine.  They  have  need  to 
husband  all  their  energies  for  the  Ailfilment  of  their 
heavy  duties.  If  at  any  time  their  system  seems  to 
require  a  little  lowering,  it  is  wonderful  how  surely  and 
speedily  that  is  effected  by  mere  abstinence  for  a  day  or 
two  from  the  usual  allowance  of  fermented  beverage  or 
meat  The  simple  act  of  continuing  to  live  incessantly 
wastes  the  stock  of  material  in  hand ;  much  more  must 
such  be  the  case  when  exertion  of  mind  and  body  are 
superadded.     In  the  great  majority  of  instances,  deple- 

*  « When  food  is  taken  into  the  month,  it  should  be  masticated, 
especially  vegetable  food,  as  by  this  process  the  starch  comes  in 
contact  with  the  saliva.  The  saliva  contains  a  principle  called  fo/tvui, 
which  serves  to  convert  the  starch  into  sngar,  and  render  it  soluble. 
Meat  requires  mastication,  in  order  that  it  may  be  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  rendered  easily  digestible  in  the  stomach.  It  is  not  well  to  'bolt' 
any  kind  of  food  ;  and,  as  a  rule,  those  who  take  their  food  deliber^ 
ately,  digest  it  better  than  those  who  take  it  in  a  hurry."— Z7r.  Lan- 
kester't*"  Good  Food;'  p.  61. 


750  CONCLUSIONS. 

tive  and  cathartic  treatment  may  be  believed  to  be  a 
mistake ;  for  what,  after  all,  is  life  or  vitality  bat  the 
manifestation  of  aocumnlated  strength?  and  what  is 
death,  but  the  result  of  weakness  fallen  to  an  extreme 
degree?  What  is  the  maintenance  of  life,  but  the 
sustaining,  the  keeping  vpy  of  the  vital  powers?  All 
forms  of  bleeding,  therefore,  all  violent  purgiog,  all 
extraordinary  abstinence,  should  be  refrained  from,  and 
never  permitted  but  on  those  exceptional  occasions  when 
the  physician's  orders  are  paramount. 

Professional  persons,  especially,  will  do  well,  for 
their  own  sakes,  to  study  the  Tonic  Treatment  of  Disease, 
as  insisted  on  by  Mr.  Skey.*  He  is' not  alone  in  object- 
ing strenuously  to  that  system  of  medicine  which  seems 
to  regard  the  liver  as  the  most  pestilent  member  of  the 
human  frame,  needing  constantly  to  be  assisted  by  blue 
pills  and  black  draughts.  But  few  medical  men  have 
insisted  so  long  and  so  perseveringly  on  the  worthless- 
ness  of  drugs  as  compared  with  food  as  a  means  of  cure  ; 
for  the  tonics  which  Mr.  Skey  so  strongly  recommends 
are  curative  rather  as  food  than  as  medicine.  They 
supply  a  want  in  the  bodily  ^stem,  just  as  wine  supplies 
it ;  and,  in  fact,  wine  is  the  chief  of  the  tonics  which 
Mr.  Skey  recommends.  ^^I  consider  wine,"  he  says^ 
^^  indispensable  to  the  tonic  treatment  of  disease.'* 

The  theory  on  which  Mr.  Skey  proceeds  is  this :  If 
we  inquire  into  the  recent  history  of  any  one  suffering 


*  Hysteria,  jfc.  Six  Lectures  delirered  at  St.  Bartholomew's 
Hospital,  1866.  By  F.  C.  Skey,  F.R.S.  The  Timei  describes  them  as 
containing  ''some  useful  hints,  and  mnch  common  sense." 


CONCLUSIONS.  751 

from  illness,  whatever  form  it  may  assmne,  we  shall 
hear  of  something  tending  to  reduce  the  vital  powers  of 
the  body,  and  to  cause  exhaustion  of  some  sort  There 
is  always  a  loss — it  may  be  of  blood,  or  of  food,  or  of 
heat,  or  of  sleep ;  and  the  method  of  cure  must  consist 
in  making  up  for  the  loss.  ^^  I  consider  the  treatment 
of  the  great  majority  of  diseases,"  says  Mr.  Skey,  "to 
consist  in  increasing  the  quantity  of  healthy  blood  and 
giving  force  to  the  action  of  the  heart.  You  cavHt^'*  he 
continues,  and  the  italics  are  his  own, — "  Ycm  carUt  cure 
disease  with  a  feeble  pulse.  Mend  the  pulse,  and  nature 
will  do  the  rest  of  the  work."  He  accordingly  brings 
forward  a  number  of  examples  to  show  how  disease  is 
produced  by  exhaustion,  and  is  thrown  off  when  the 
animal  economy  is  properly  supported. 

For  instance,  he  states  that  the  late  Mr.  Jones,  of 
Jersey,  was  a  remarkably  successfril  operator ;  in  opera- 
tions for  the  excision  of  diseased  joints,  he  succeeded  in 
a  series  of  five-and-tweuty  cases  without  the  loss  of  a 
single  patient,  at  a  time  when  in  England  the  mortality 
in  similar  cases  was  very  great,  recovery  being  rather  the 
exception  than  the  rule.  What  was  the  secret  of  this  ? 
On  making  the  inquiry,  it  was  discovered  that  Mr. 
Jones  invariably  gave  every  patient  on  whom  he  operated 
at  least  a  pint  of  port  wine  on  each  of  the  two  days  fol- 
lowing the  operation;  and  he  acknowledged  that  he 
learnt  the  treatment,  which  had  been  followed  by  such 
remarkable  results,  from  his  observation  of  the  success 
which  had  attended  Mr.  Skey's  practice  in  St  Bartholo- 
mew's Hospital. 


752  CONOLtTBIONS. 

What  has  been  said  of  Professional  applies  with  still 
greater  force  to  Literary  Persons,  ^peciallj  when  the 
latter  are  rapid  producers  of  original  literature.  Authors, 
male  and  female,  might  enjoy  excellent  health,  their 
original  constitution  permitting;  there  is  nothing  in 
their  pursuits  themselves  to  prevent  it;  only,  in  their 
zeal  and  industry,  they  are  often  tempted  to  cany  what 
is  really  good  to  an  excess  which  then  becomes  per- 
nicious. For  the  mind  is  not  the  body's  enemy,  but  quite 
the  contrary.  A  well-regulated  activity  of  the  brain  is 
communicated  through  the  nerves  to  all  the  organs,  and 
aids  them  in  the  performance  of  their  functions. 

It  is  not  by  leaving  the  central  force  in  idleness  that 
we  can  hope  to  acquire  stronger  or  steadier  health. 
During  sleep,  while  the  brain  is  taking  its  rest,  even 
the  vital  functions  of  nutrition  are  somewhat  slackened. 
Absolute  immobility  of  that  organ  finally  terminates  in 
death.  It  is  expedient,  therefore,  or,  rather,  necessary, 
to  exercise  it :  but  it  must  not  be  distressed  or  over- 
worked. Any  exertion  of  the  brain  which  is  either  too 
violent  or  too  long-continued,  by  concentrating  the 
forces  of  the  system  on  one  single  point,  reduces  the  rest 
of  the  organism  to  a  state  of  languor.  The  natural  equi- 
librium is  disturbed ;  sensibility  is  no  longer  distributed 
according  to  the  requirements  of  the  vital  processes;  and 
the  animal  economy  soon  falls  into  fits  of  alternate  pro- 
stration and  over-excitement.  Eveiy  intellectual  excess 
will  tell,  in  tlie  end,  on  the  bodily  firame.  The  process  of 
giving  out  heat  and  light  is  also  a  consuming  process. 

One  of  the  first  to  call  attention  to  these  &cts  was 


CONCLUSIONS.  753 

Tissot,  a  medical  practitioner  at  Lausanne,  while 
Bonsseau  and  Voltaire  were  residing  there,  and  who, 
therefore,  witnessed  the  morhid  melancholy  of  the  one, 
and  the  convulsive  irritability  of  the  other.  In  the 
eighteenth  century,  whoever  could  wield  a  pen  looked 
upon  himself  as  if  armed  with  a  sword.  Men  of  letters 
formed  a  body  militant,  who  claimed  the  privileges  of  tlie 
victorious  soldier,  despising  constraint,  and  giving  them- 
selves up  to  the  reckless  pursuit  of  both  intellectual  and 
sensual  pleasures.  The  double  license  soon  bore  its 
fruit;  mental  diseases  increased  in  frequency,  and 
deranged  health  was  the  almost  certain  consequence  of 
the  intemperate  cultivation  of  literature  and  science. 
Tissot,  believing  that  it  was  time  to  remind  literary  per- 
sons of  certain  prudential  and  hygienic  rules,  made  them 
the  subject  of  the  inaugural  discourse  with  which  he  took 
possession  of  his  Professor's  Chair  at  the  Academy  of 
Lausanne,  on  the  9th  of  April  1766.  Tliis  discourse 
(originally  written  in  Latin),  after  several  enlargements 
and  modifications,  has  finally  taken  its  place  as  a  standard 
work  under  the  title  oiDe  la  SantS  dea  Gens  de  Lettres — 
«  On  the  Health  of  Men  and  Women  of  Letters."  The 
greater  part  of  its  contents  is  as  valuable  now  as  when 
first  written.  Li  these  days  we  think  it  strange  that  he 
should  have  been  reproached  with  lowering  the  dignity 
of  science  by  making  it  comprehensible  to  the  multitude. 
But  he  had  no  thought  of  rendering  his  readers  indepen- 
dent of  the  physician's  advice;  he  merely  wished  to 
enable  them  to  avoid  imprudence  and  errors  leading  to 
evils  beyond  the  physician's  power  to  cure. 

3c 


754  CONCLUSIONS. 

The  maladies  of  literaiy  persons  arise  from  two  prin- 
cipal causes;  namely,  long-sustained  labours  of  the 
mind,  and  continual  repose  of  the  bodily  firame.  Wha 
the  intellect  is  at  work,  the  organs  of  the  brain  are  moce 
or  less  in  movement,  under  a  greater  or  less  strain ;  iho66 
efforts  and  movements  fatigue  the  brain ;  after  a  long  and 
difficult  meditation,  it  is  as  much  exhausted  as  a  robmfc 
person  is  by  violent  exercise.  Whoever  has  ihou^ 
deeply,  only  once  in  his  life,  must  have  made  the  experi- 
ment in  his  own  person;  and  there  is  not  a  man  of  letters 
who  has  not  sometimes  left  his  study  with  a  hot  head 
aching  violently.  The  marks  of  fatigue  are  seen  in  bis 
eyes ;  and  if  we  look  at  a  man  plunged  in  meditation, 
we  observe  that  the  muscles  of  his  face  are  tightlj 
stretched,  and  sometimes  almost  in  convulsion.  Eiik- 
Patrick,  who  translated  Tissot's  work  into  English 
(London,  1769),  says  in  his  preface,  "  I  knew  a  gentle- 
man of  very  active  mind,  who,  whenever  he  was  thinking 
deeply,  had  all  the  fibres  of  his  forehead  and  of  a  part  of 
his  face  as  visibly  agitated  as  the  strings  of  a  harpsichord 
when  it  is  played  upon  with  spirit" 

Tissot  then  quotes  a  fragment  to  the  purpose  from 
the  Adventurer  (Vol.  L  No.  2) :  "  The  multitude  who 
live  by  bodily  toil,  imagine  that  study  does  not  fiitigue; 
they  are  greatly  mistaken.  Thought  is  real  labour^ 
which  is  not  less  fatiguing  than  tha^.of  the  ploughman 
or  the  artisan,  without  enjoying  its  advantages.  Tb^ 
latter  gives  health,  strength,  cheerfulness,  easy  slambers, 
a  good  appetite;  whereas  the  effects  of  studious  and 
sedentary  habits  are  disorders  which  poison  and  shorten 


OOKOLUSIOKS.  755 

life,  prevent  sleep,  impair  the  appetite,  and  cause  con- 
tinual anxiety." 

Whenever  the  brain  is  exhausted  by  mental  labour, 
tiie  nerves  necessarily  suffer ;  their  derangement  brings 
;about  the  derangement  of  health,  and  the  constitution 
is  gradually  injured  without  the  presence  of  any  other 
influence*  ^^  Many,  like  myself,  may  have  experienced," 
says  Bonnet,  ^^that  long  thought  weakens  the  organs 
of  sight ;  if  the  organs  of  hearing  do  not  manifest  the 
same  weariness,  it  is  doubtless  because  they  are  less 
delicate." 

The  brain,  which  is,  so  to  speak,  the  theatre  of  war ; 
ihe  nerves,  which  branch  off  from  it ;  and  the  stomach, 
which  contains  many  vezy  sensitive  nerves,— are  the 
organs  which  usually  suffer  the  soonest  and  tibe  most 
from  excessive  intellectual  labour :  but  there  is  no  organ 
which  does  not  feel  the  consequence,  if  the  cause  con- 
tinues too  long  in  action.  These  facts  are  particularly 
observable  when  young  persons  are  forced  to  undue 
application  while  their  growth  still  is  incomplete. 
Children  of  great  promise,  compelled  to  study  without 
intermission,  have  broken  down,  and  died,  or  become 
epileptic  for  life. 

The  derangements  of  the  brain,  brought  on  by  in- 
ordinate intellectual  exertion,  are  the  consequences  of 
three  laws  which  govern  the  animal  economy : 

First  When  the  mindy  by  long-continued  toUj  has 
excited  the  brain  to  an  unduly  powerful  degree  of  activity ^ 
it  is  no  longer  able  to  repress  that  activity.  The  excitement 
oontinues  in  spite  of  itself;  and,  reacting  upon  itself, 


756  CONCLUSIONS. 

causes  it  to  entertain  ideas  which  are  trolj  delirious, 
because  thej  no  longer  answer  to  the  impressions  pro* 
duced  bj  external  objects,  but  to  the  internal  condition 
of  the  brain,  a  portion  of  which  has  become  incapable  of 
receiving  the  communications  transmitted  to  it  hj  the 
senses.     This  maxim,  fiill  of  physiological  truth,  givea 
us  the  real  theory  of  dreams  and  mental  alienation  in 
one  of  its  essential  forms.     It  explains  the  hallucinations 
and  the  tendency  to  insanity  which  often  follow  violent 
emotions,  absorbing  sorrows,  over-weening  self-esteem, 
passionate  love,  excessive  religious  fimaticLsm,  and  dra* 
matic  events  occurring  in  real  life,  as  well  as  intemperate 
addiction  to  scientific  pursuits.     Thus,  SpineUo,  having 
to  paint  the  Fall  of  the  EebeUious  Angels,  became  so 
absorbed  in  the  portrait  he  gave  to  Lucifer,  that  he  could 
never  afterwards  banish  it  firom  his  mind.     During  the 
rest  of  his  life  he  &ncied  that  the  demon  was  constantly 
in  Iiis  presence,  venting  his  anger  at  having  been  repre- 
sented so  hideous  and  so  terrible.     Space  alone  prevents 
our  citing  many  other  like  instances. 

The  obvious  means  of  avoiding  such  a  state  are,  as 
soon  as  over-excitement  or  over- weariness  of  mind  begins 
to  be  felt^— or,  with  hard-worked  brains,  whenever  an 
opportunity  occurs — ^to  take  a  spell  of  rest,  never  mind 
how  short  It  will  be,  as  it  were,  a  lull  in  the  tempest, 
allowing  the  waves  to  subside  and  the  winds  to  calm. 
It  will  be  a  check  to  the  ever-accelerated  velocity  with 
which  the  train  of  ideas  would  otherwise  run  on. 

Happy  are  the  busy  brains  which  can  thus  bring 
their  own  activity  to  a  stand-still ;  for  when  the  mind 


■■a  ■■  -  J.  1 —      -^- 


CONCLUSIOKS.  757 

has  once  been  taken  possession  of  by  one  absorbing  idea, 
it  is  often  in  vain  that  friends  advise  us,  and  that  we 
resolve  ourselves,  to  "  think  no  more  about  it"  There 
it  is,  preventing  sleep,  and  driving  out  every  other 
thought  When  the  down-hill  impetus  has  once  been 
given,  it  is  in  vain  to  whistle  to  the  stone  to  stop. 

It  is  said  that  the  late  Duke  of  Wellington  through 
the  course  of  his  Peninsular  campaigns,  and  the  present 
Lord  Brougham  during  the  busiest  part  of  his  career, 
enjoyed  the  faculty  of  being  able  to  say,  "  I  will  sleep 
for  twenty  minutes,  or  for  half  an  hour ;"  and  that,  at 
the  end  of  that  interval  of  repose,  they  would  wake  up, 
giants  refreshed.  This  habit  may  have  been  at  least 
one  of  the  causes  which  enabled  those  valiant  veterans 
to  retain  their  strength  and  clearness  of  intellect,  the 
one  to  a  good,  the  other  to  extreme,  old  age. 

The  persons  soonest  put  out  of  order  by  mental 
efforts,  are  those  who  are  ceaselessly  occupied  by  a 
single  object;  in  their  case,  only  one  portion  of  the 
sensorium  is  strained,  and  that  portion  is  always  on 
the  stretch.  No  repose  is  afforded  to  it  by  others  being 
called  into  action;  it  is  wearied  and  worn  out  all  the 
sooner.  In  the  bodily  frame,  when  a  single  muscle,  or 
a  limited  group  of  muscles,  is  made  to  work  incessantly, 
the  constitution  suffers  considerably  more  than  if  the 
same  amount  of  action  were  successively  shared  by  all 
the  muscles.  The  case  is  precisely  the  same  with  the 
brain.  When  its  different  portions  are  called  into  action 
one  after  the  other,  it  suffers  much  less  fatigue;  the 
portions  which  rest  regain  their  strength,  whilst  the 


758  CONCLUSIOKS. 

others  are  performing  work.  This  plan  of  **  Beat,  and 
alternate  labour/'  is  the  most  certain  mode  of  presenring 
health.  It  is  well  expressed  in  the  homely  proTcA: 
**  Change  of  work  is  as  good  as  play." 

Instances    and    examples  of  this  troth   are  agaii 
omitted,  solely  for  want  of  space. 

The  second  law  to  which  the  human  frame  is  subject, 
and  on  which  depend  many  of  the  maladies  occasioneii 
by  laborious  study,  is,  that  The  humours  tend  to  aeemmh 
late  in  the  parts  in  action :  '^  Vbi  stimulnsj  Sn  JbiXUMT 
While  the  brain  is  at  work,  it  receiyes  an  additional 
quantity  of  blood,  which,  causing  too  great  a  tensibn  and 
motion  in  the  vessels,  produces  the  sensation  of  pain  and 
heat  already  mentioned.  In  short,  there  arises  an  inci- 
pient state  of  determination  of  blood  to  the  head. 

ZImmermann,  the  author  of  the  celebrated  Essay  m 
Solitude^  experienced  in  his  own  person  the  efiects  of 
severe  mental  effort  in  determining  a  rush  of  blood  to 
the  brain.     "  Having  the  day  before  yesterday  been 
requested,"  he  writes  to  his  friend  Tissot,  "  to  compose 
a  Memoire  of  great'  interest  to  our  public,  and  whidi 
admitted  of  no  delay,  I  resolved  to  finish  it  on  the  spot^ 
and  set  about  it  with  all  my  might  and  main.     I  made 
the  necessary  inquiries,  and  composed  the  Memoire  in 
the  space  of  four  hours.     I  went  to  bed  afterwards  m 
good  health,  but  with  my  mind  more  excited  than  it  had 
been  for  some  time  past.     I  slept;  but  yesterday,  on 
getting  up,  /  liad  a  head-ache  so  severe  that  I  would  not 
leave  believed  it  possible  to  occur  in  nature.     It  almost 
drove  me  out  of  my  senses,  and  only  left  me  reason 


i 


CONCLUSIONS.  759 

enough  to  say  to  myself,  "This  is  the  conseqnence  of  too 
great  a  mental  strain.'  Until  noontime,  the  pain  kept 
getting  worse  and  worse.  Cream  of  tartar,  very  hot 
leg-baths,  milk  of  almonds,  and  small  doses  of  quinine, 
set  me  right  again." 

A  slight  irritation  of  the  brain  suffices  to  cause  sleep- 
lessness; stronger  irritation  produces  convulsions;  carried 
to  a  still  further  degree,  it  brings  on  apoplexy — a  too 
frequent  cause  of  death  with  literary  persons.  They 
are  punished  through  the  offending  member.  Study — 
that  is,  study  carried  to  excess,  and  not  the  due  and 
regular  exercise  of  the  brain — weakens  that  organ  to 
such  an  extent  as  to  bring  on  hypochondria,  childish- 
ness, imbecility,  idiotism,  especially  when  other  circum- 
stances concur  in  driving  to  it  a  considerable  quantity  of 
blood. 

Great  preachers  and  illustrious  professors  have  been 
known  to  die  in  the  pulpit  and  the  lecture-room,  as 
happened  at  Leipsio  to  the  celebrated  Curtius.  Livy 
has  recorded  the  story  of  King  Attains,  who,  exhorting 
the  Boeotians  to  conclude  an  alliance  with  the  Bomans, 
fell  dead  in  the  middle  of  his  speech.  Actors  have  not 
unfrequently  expired  on  the  stage,  or  immediately  after 
removal  from  it :  ascetic  bigots  pronounce  such  a  fate 
to  be  a  "judgment"  inflicted  on  their  worldly  pro- 
fession ;  medical  men  more  wisely  refer  it  to  the 
emotions  of  their  part,  and  the  strain  on  their  memories. 
At  B&le,  during  an  Academic  ceremony,  one  of  the 
candidates,  already  exhausted  by  long  preliminary 
studies,  had  to  make  such  exertions  to  get  through 


760  CONCLUSIONS. 

witih  his  discourse,  that  he  was  seized  with  apoples^, 
and  died  on  the  spot 

The  third  law,  in  conseqaence  of  which  excessive 
literary  labour  becomes  the  cause  of  still  further  dis- 
ease, is,  that  Animal  fibre  becomes  hardened  by  exercise. 
The  whole  bodily  man,  as  he  grows  older,  hardens, 
and  old  age  is  a  general  conversion  into  horn.  With 
workmen,  the  working  members  are  indurated;  wiih 
literary  persons,  it  is  the  brain  that  works ;  and  often 
do  they  become  incapable  of  connecting  their  ideas, 
and  grow  old  before  their  time.  In  children,  the  brain 
is  still  too  soft ;  in  old  people,  it  has  grown  too  hard ; 
and  either  excess  is  an  equal  hindrance  to  the  complete 
exercise  of  its  proper  functions.  The  memory,  the  first 
to  give  the  signs  of  failing,  presages  the  weakness  of  the 
other  faculties. 

Over-activity  of  mind  and  inaction  of  body  are  the 
principal  causes  of  disorder  with  literary  persons ;  but 
they  are  not  the  only  ones.  The  student's  very  attitude 
cannot  be  otherwise  than  injurious  to  health.  The  fold- 
ing and  compression  which  the  vessels  suffer,  in  a  sitting 
posture,  at  the  upper  part  of  the  thigh  and  beneath  the 
knee,  impede  the  circulation  in  the  lower  members,  one 
of  the  consequences  of  which  is  cold  feet  and  legs.  The 
stoog  of  the  body  affects  the  abdominal  viscera,  and  is 
an  additional  cause  of  indigestion ;  the  stomach  is  doubly 
a  sufferer.  Hence,  not  a  few  literary  men  have  wisely 
performed  their  work  in  an  erect  position,  by  means 
of  a  desk  at  which  they  can  stand  and  write.  A  stand- 
ing desk  is  useftil  to  have  in  one's  study,  if  only  for  the 


CONCLUSIONS.  761 

purpose  of  varying  the  disposition  of  the  limbs  during  a 
spell  of  work. 

Night-work  may  be  regarded  as  a  fourth  exciting 
cause  of  malady  in  learned  folk.  A  man  who  has 
been  working  during  the  day,  toils  much  too  hard  if 
.he  continues  to  work  during  part  of  the  night.  The 
time  allowed  for  sleep  is  unduly  shortened,  and  is 
insufficient  to  repair  the  previous  wear  and  tear.  More- 
over, the  sleep  which  follows  long-continued  exertion  is 
never  calm  and  tranquil  It  does  not  produce  the  effect 
it  ought,  because  the  brain  continues  in  a  state  of  excite- 
ment It  is  found  impossible  to  break  the  thread  of 
thought ;  the  over-weary  labourer  cannot  sleep,  or  if  he 
do,  it  is  a  state  of  half-asleep  and  half-awake,  during 
the  course  of  which  restless  ideas  increase  fatigue 
without  rendering  service.  The  ancients  were  weU 
aware  of  the  danger.  Asinius  PoUio,  consul  and 
orator,  who  was  the  first  in  Rome  to  collect  a  library, 
was  so  conscious  of  the  risk  of  evening  studies,  that  he 
would  not  even  read  his  letters  after  the  tenth  hour, 
that  is,  two  hours  before  sunset 

Of  all  the  functions,  when  once  disordered,  sleep  is 
the  most  difficult  to  reestablish.  "We  lose  it  gaily ;  we 
lament  it  bitterly,  and  almost  always  uselessly. 

Bespecting  Those  who  labour  in  the  nighty  and  rest 
during  the  day^  as  readers,  compositors,  and  others  en- 
gaged in  printing-offices,  and  many  other  noctumally 
exercised  professions,  Dr.  Edward  Smith  remarks: 
*^  There  is  much  diversity  in  the  plans  pursued  by  dif- 
ferent persons  of  the  same  class,  some  of  which  are,  I 


762  CONCLUSIONS. 

think,  prejudicial  to  health.  The  proper  plan  is  to  take 
a  good  dinner  almost  immediately  before  going  to  duty, 
as,  for  example,  from  4  to  6  p.m.,  and  a  good  meat  supper 
about  midnight  A  small  breakfast  should  then  be  taken 
on  leaving  the  office  and  before  going  to  bed,  and  a  good 
breakfast,  similar  to  the  French  d^eikier  ct  la  fourchettej 
on  rising,  at  from  12  to  2  o'clock.  There  will  thus  be 
three  good  meals  taken  during  the  24  hours,  and  the 
body  will  be  sustained  by  nourishment  at  the  period  when 
exertion  is  made,  and  when  the  human  system  is  at  its 
lowest  point  of  vigour." 

It  is  dangerous  for  literary  persons  who  are  no  longer 
young  to  apply  themselves  abruptly  to  sciences  different 
from  those  which  they  had  hitherto  cultivated.  The  new 
ideas  which  occupy  their  attention  cannot  do  otherwise 
than  disturb  the  system  of  nervous  persons.  An  able 
theologian  absolutely  ruined  his  health  by  renouncing 
his  usual  studies  in  order  to  learn  Hebrew ;  and  a  respect* 
able  parish  priest,  promoted  to  a  theological  professorship 
at  the  age  of  fifty,  fell  into  a  state  of  debility  which 
brought  him  to  the  grave,  in  consequence  of  his  endea- 
vours to  fulfil  the  duties  of  his  new  vocation. 

If  a  changed  course  of  study  is  injurious  to  persons 
of  mature  age,  continuing  to  labour  is  not  less  so  when 
advanced  age  has  been  attained.  We  all  remember  the 
sad  results  of  Sir  Walter  Scott's  working  when  he  should 
have  worked  no  longer ;  and  Southey  was  another  suf* 
ferer  from  not  resting  when  he  ought  to  have  rested. 
Few  men  are  bom  with  the  happy  constitution  of  Grorgias 
do  Leontium,  who  reached  the  age  of  one  hundred  and 


COKOLUSIONS.  763 

eight  jears  withoat  discontinuing  his  studies  and  without 
infirmities;  or  of  his  disciple  Isoorates^  who  wrote  his 
Panatltenasi  at  the  age  of  ninety-four,  and  lived  to 
ninety-eight. 

Our  soul  is  unquestionably  immortal ;  but,  so  long  as 
it  is  united  to  the  body,  it  follows  the  latter's  destiny ;  it 
seems  to  be  bom,  to  gather  strength,  and  to  grow  old 
together  with  it  The  diminution  of  our  corporeal  forces 
is  a  warning  to  diminish  our  intellectual  labours ;  the  one 
can  no  more  support  the  same  amount  of  study,  than  the 
other  can  bear  the  same  weight  of  burden ;  the  mental 
fiumlties  are  weakened,  as  well  as  the  muscular  strength. 
Few  old  people  seem  to  be  aware  of  this  truth ;  some  will 
not  even  bear  to  have  it  mentioned ;  all  are,  in  this  re- 
spect, Archbishops  of  Gi*enada.  But  the  truth  is  not  the 
less  real  for  that ;  and  those  who  moderate  their  toil  in 
proportion  as  their  age  advances,  take  the  steps  most 
likely  to  prevent  infirmities  and  insure  continued  health. 
Voltaire,  who  wrote  at  eighty  with  all  the  fire  and  gaiety 
of  thirty,  is  probably  a  unique  example. 

It  is  the  &shion,  now,  for  head-workers  to  seek  a 
renovation  of  their  health  and  strength  in  an  annual  ex- 
cursion or  tiip,  during  which  they  are  exposed  to  phy- 
sical conditions  greatly  differing  from  those  of  their  usual 
life  ;  and  it  may  often  be  questioned  whether  the  change 
be  not  both  too  severe  and  too  sudden.  It  may  be 
doubted  whether  exhausting  walks  are  the  best  restora- 
tives for  hard-worked  professional  men,  who  have  been 
pent  in  cities  for  the  ten  months  previous.  The  change 
is  too  abrupt  and  too  complete  to  be  healthy.     Conti- 


764  CONGLUSIOfKS. 

nental  travel  and  moontaia  ascents  (the  favourite  mode 
of  relaxation)  are,  for  snch  persons,  like  exposing  a 
greenhonse-plant  to  the  rude  climate  of  a  steeple-top. 
Remembering  the  delicacj  of  the  human  organism,  com* 
bined  with  the  powerful  effect  of  habit,  it  is  evident  that, 
in  oanying  oat  this  plan,  great  precaution  is  requisite, 
both  in  respect  to  clothing  and  diet  In  the  first  place, 
the  transition  should  be  made  as  gradnallj  as  time  and 
circumstances  permit;  the  immense  change  should  be 
softened  as  much  as  possible ;  and  there  are  efforts  and 
degrees  of  endurance  which  no  wise  man,  however 
strong,  would  expose  himself  to  make,  without  a  certain 
amount  of  previous  training. 

Persons  unaccustomed  to  behold  the  sun  once  a  day 
(often  not  once  a  week),  and  living  within  walls  and 
under  an  atmospheric  canopj  which  cut  off  nearly  all 
radiation  from  themselves,  are  abruptly  plunged  into 
£oods  of  sunshine,  and  exposed  to  an  amount  of  radiation 
firom  without  and  from  within,  which  they  never  felt 
before  in  their  lives.  They  rush  into  showers  of  sun^ 
beams,  and  other  influences  darted  out  by  our  great 
luminary,  while  they  incur  sudden  losses  of  animal 
heat  unknown  to  their  city  experience.  Jt  cannot 
be  a  very  salutary  tonic  to  be  roasted  at  one  end,  and 
iced  at  the  other.  The  effects  of  the  cooking  are 
visible  in  the  noses  and  lips  they  bring  down  to  tho 
valley. 

When  either  of  these  radiations  are  excessive,  the 
results  are  &tal.  Sunstrokes  are  produced  by  radiation 
from  the  sun ;  moon-blindness  is  caused  by  the  chill  on 


CONCLUSIONS,  765 

the  eyes  consequent  on  the  radiation  ^rom  tliem  into  open 
space,  the  brilliant  shining  of  the  moon  being  merely 
an  accompaniment  to  the  clearness  of  the  atmosphere. 
Against  these  nnaccustomed  influences,  prudential  mea-* 
sures  are  to  be  sought  in  various  modes  of  protection — 
in  double-lined  umbrellas,  used  as  parasols;  in  veils, 
various  wraps,  and  general  clothing  warm  rather  than 
flimsy  in  its  texture.  The  Turk  and  the  Arab  wear  thick 
turbans,  to  keep  their  heads  cooL 

Michelet,  speaking  of  the  beneficial  effects  of  change 
of  air,*  says :  "  Transitions,  especially,  ought  to  be 
made  with  great  caution. 

"  Can  we,  without  preparation,  without  some  modi* 
fication  of  living  and  regimen,  be  abruptly  transferred 
firom  a  completely  inland  climate  (Paris,  Lyons,  or 
Dijon)  to  a  sea-side  climate  ?  Can  we,  until  we  have 
breathed  the  sea-air  for  a  considerable  time,  begin  taking 
sea-baths  ?  Can  we,  without  some  habituation  of  pru- 
dent hydrotherapy  commenced  inland,  brave,  in  the  open 
air,  the  nervous  constriction,  the  horripilation,  caused  by 
eold  water,  which  sticks  to  you  as  you  try  to  get  out  of 
it,  and  often  with  a  high  wind  blowing?  These  pre- 
liminary questions  will  more  and  more  attract  the  atten- 
tion of  medical  men. 

"  The  extreme  rapidity  of  railway  travelling  is  an 
antimedical  circumstance.  To  go,  as  we  do,  in  twenty 
hours  from  Paris  to  the  Mediterranean,  traversing  dif- 
ferent climates  from  hour  to  hour,  is  the  most  imprudent 
act  in  the  world  for  a  nervous  person  to  commit     You 

•  La  Mer,  p.  360. 


766  CONCLUSIONS. 

reach  Marseilles  with  your  head  in  a  whirl,  fiiU  of  agita- 
tion, inebriated. 

^^When  Madame  de  S^vigne  took  a  month  to  go 
fix>m  Brittany  to  Provence,  she  passed  gradually  and  by 
cantious  stages  through  the  violent  opposition  of  those 
two  climates.  She  proceeded  insensibly  firom  the  western 
to  the  eastern  maritime  zone,  and  thence  to  the  inland 
climate  of  Burgundy.  Then,  slowly  following  the  Upper 
Bhone  into  Dauphiny,  she  confronted  with  less  difficulty 
the  high  winds  of  Valence  and  Avignon.  Finally, 
resting  for  a  while  at  Aix,  in  inland  Provence,  away 
from  the  Bhone  and  from  the  coast,  she  became  a  natu- 
ralised Provengale,  as  far  as  breathing  and  the  chest 
were  concerned.  Then,  and  then  only,  she  encountered 
the  Mediterranean.'* 

Contrast  this  with  the  rapid  flights  made  nowa- 
days from  Westminster  Hall  to  the  top  of  Mont  Blanc, 
and  then  reflect  which  plan  is  likely  to  be  most  suitable 
{or  persons  not  in  the  robustest  health. 

Whenever  pedestrian  travel  is  in  view,  great  care 
should  be  paid  to  the  management  of  the  feet  Every 
intending  pedestrian  ought  to  take  serious  thought  liow 
he  means  to  be  shod;  for  it  is  not  enough  merely  to 
have  something  between  the  stones  and  the  soles  of  your 
feet  A  doggrel  philosopher  has  enunciated  the  axiom, 
that  "Without  feet,  you  can't  have  toes;"  we  may 
carry  the  truism  frurther,  and  assert  that  without  good 
walking  toes  and  feet,  you  can't  walk.  But  sedentary 
people  are  apt  to  forget  that  there  are  two  sorts  of  human 
fset :  &et  to  walk  with,  and  feet  to  sit  still  with.     We 


CONCLUSI0198.  767 

treat  our  sedentary  feet  at  home  exactly  as  they  should 
be  treated,  by  carrying  out  the  golden  rule  to  keep  the 
head  cool  and  the  feet  warm.  But  walking  feet  must  be 
otlierwise  managed ;  they  must  be  kept  cool  and  dry : 
hence,  partly,  the  pedestrian  exploits  performed  by  nude- 
footed  people,  as  the  Scotch  and  the  Arabs.  Thick 
stoddngB,  which  enoourage,  and  boote,  highlows,  or 
bottiMSj  which  confine,  moisture,  are  bad.  At  the  end 
of  a  long  summer-day's  journey,  you  will  have  your 
feet  tender,  sodden,  half-skinned,  approaching  the  con- 
dition of  an  overboiled  fowl ;  for  which  misfortune  (when 
it  occurs),  the  best  remedy  is  to  enclose  your  toes  and 
the  parts  affected  in  a  linen  rag  soaked  in  brandy  and 
olive-oil,  before  drawing  on  your  stockings.  Wear  thin 
socks  or  stockings  of  finest  wool,  and  thick-soled  shoes, 
cut  low  rather  than  high,  and  already  worn  before  start- 
ing. If  you  must  have  gaiters,  to  keep  out  gravel  and 
bits  of  stick,  let  them  be  of  brown-hoUand  or  hempen 
•doth,  or  at  least  of  some  material  not  impervious  to 
vapour. 

Li  starting  for  an  eminence  whence  a  view  is  to  be 
admired,  take  with  you  a  woollen  comforter  and  a  flannel 
under-shirt ;  an  overcoat  also  is  a  wise  precaution.  Tou 
arrive  perspiring  at  the  top;  you  immediately  change 
your  wet  flannel  for  dry.  If  the  air  is  keen,  as  mostly 
happens,  you  don  the  additional  outer  clothing,  and 
onjoy  your  panorama  in  comfort  and  safety.  These  and 
other  useful  items  will  go  into  a  little  hand-bag,  ^easily 
carried  by  deputy  if  not  convenient  to  do  it  yourself. 

The  appetite  will  be  increased  by  travelling,  and  may 


768  CONCLUSIONS. 

be  safely  indulged  within  moderate  bounds.  The  di- 
gestive powers  partake  of  the  stimulus  which  travel 
applies  to  the  whole  economy.  Indigestion  connected  in 
any  way  with  hypochondria  is  often  forgotten ;  and  such 
indigestion,  forgotten,  is  cured  for  the  time.  A  more 
substantial  breakfast  than  that  usually  taken  at  home  is 
required  by  most  constitutions,  while  making  a  ped^* 
trian  tour  especially,  or  one  which  involves  much  exercise 
on  foot.  The  foreign  fashion  of  drinking  wine-and-water 
at  breakfast  may  be  even  adopted  with  advantage  by 
many  whom  it  would  render  uncomfortable  at  home. 
Extra  fatigue  requires  extra  restoratives;  and  a  man's 
appetite  for  meat  and  drink  is  very  different  amongst  the 
Alps  to  what  it  is  in  a  city  counting-house.*  His  after- 
dinner  digestion,  when  he  has  only  to  lounge  out-of- 
doors  and  admire  a  sunset,  is  also  different  from  what  it 

*  We  are  glad  to  find  our  yiews  confirmed  bj  high  and  undoubted 
authority : 

''As  great  activity  of  body  leads  to  g^at  waste  of  the  structures  of 
the  body  and  to  the  rapid  destruction  of  food,  it  is  necessary  that  it  be 
followed  by  a  large  amount  of  food ;  and  as  it  is  usually  accompanied 
by  a  good  appetite,  an  abundant  supply  may  be  taken  at  each  meal. 
The  increase  should  be  of  all  kinds  of  food  alike,  both  animal  and 
vegetable,  particularly  of  meat,  fat,  bread,  and  fresh  vegetables ;  but 
the  amount  of  fluid  which  is  taken  should  be  increased  in  a  less  degree. 

''Thus,  to  one  who  makes  much  bodily,  or  bodily  and  mental, 
exertion  during  the  day,  as  in  hunting  or  campaigning,  the  following 
quantity  of  food  daily  would  not  be  excessive :  Cooked  meat,  8  ob.  ; 
bacon,  4  os. ;  butter,  2  oz. ;  sugar,  2  oz. ;  cheese,  2  oz. ;  besides 
one  or  more  eggs  and  the  less  important  foods  which  enter  into  a 
daily  dietary.  Soldiers  and  sailors,  in  time  of  active  service,  obtain 
from  lib.  to  l^lb.  of  uncooked  meat;  and  as  they  do  not  have  the 
variety  of  food  just  enumerated,  and  cannot  thoroughly  cook  their 
food,  so  large  a  quantity  is  no  doubt  necessary.'* — Dr.  Edward  Smith's 
Practical  Dietary. 


CONCLUSIONS.  769 

is  when  he  has  to  retire  to  his  studj  and  do  two  or  three 
hours'  work. 

Persons  retoming  from  active  ont-door  to  in-door 
sedentary  habits,  most  at  once  return  to  their  usual 
clothing  and  their  usual  diet,  under  pain  of  serious 
functional  derangement.  If  thej  can  again  make  the 
transition  gradual,  so  much  the  better.  They  must 
again  keep  their  head  cool  and  their  feet  warm.  Again 
must  they  breakfast  lightly,  lunch  lightly,  eat  at  all 
times  with  great  moderation,  and  reserve  what  fermented 
bevera£;e  they  take,  as  far  as  may  be.  for  a  nifi:ht-cap.  If. 
at  firstf  their  travelling  appetite  Jemins,  ihey  must  obsti^ 
nately  persist  in  refusing  to  gratify  it ;  their  frame  has  no 
longer  a  call  for  such  liberal  supplies  of  nourishment  as 
it  lately  had.  If  their  appetite  flag,  they  need  not  be 
uneasy  on  that  account.  It  is  no  sign  of  failing  health, 
but  the  contrary ;  being  simply  a  notice  that  the  expen- 
diture of  their  corporeal  system  is  less.  When  only  a 
moderate  fire  is  required  to  be  kept  up,  a  moderate  supply 
of  fuel  suffices.  The  same  reasons  explain  why  young  men 
who  have  just  completed  their  growth,  and  have  entered  on 
a  life  of  in-door  application,  ought  not  to  be  surprised  if 
their  appetite  is  no  longer  what  it  was  during  the  days 
of  their  boyhood.  Their  future  health  will  be  all  the 
better  in  consequence  of  its  moderated  vigour. 

The  first  difficulty  to  be  overcome  with  literary  per- 
sons, when  their  health  is  in  question,  is  to  get  them  to 
believe  that  they  can  possibly  be  in  the  wrong.  They 
are  like  lovers,  who  fly  into  a  passion  if  you  venture  to 
hint  that  the  object  of  their  aflections  has  a  fault.  Warn 

3d 


770  CONCLUSIONB, 

them,  reason  with  fhem,  entreat  or  scold  them ;  it  is 
often  nothing  but  labour  in  vain.  They  deceive  them- 
selves in  a  hundred  different  ways.  One  reckons  on 
the  strength  of  his  constitution ;  another,  on  the  force  of 
habit ;  a  third  hopes  to  escape  punishment,  because  he 
has  not  yet  been  punished ;  while  a  fourth  relies  on  ik 
example  of  others,  which  has  nothing  at  all  to  dowiA 
his  case.  All  resist  the  phjsician^s  advice  with  id 
obstinacy  which  they  mistake  for  firmness,  of  whick 
they  are  proud,  and  to  which  they  fell  victims.  It  nuy 
be  stated  generally  that  literary  persons  are  the  most; 
di£Scult  of  all  patients  to  manage ;  and  for  that  yery 
reason  it  is  our  duty  to  enlighten  them  respecting  the 
means  of  preserving  and  reestablishing  their  health. 

The  first  preservative,  without  which  all  other  help  is 
useless,  is  to  allow  the  mind  sufficient  relaxation.  Indeed, 
it  is  often  during  relaxation  that  the  happiest  ideas  sug- 
gest themselves.  A  country  walk  or  drive  will  often  ky 
the  foundation,  or  supply  the  substance,  of  a  successful 
work.  The  mind  is  expanded  in  the  open  air,  while  the 
narrow  walls  of  a  study  contract  it.  Gcsner,  the  German 
poet,  wrote  his  best  compositions  in  a  summer-house  in 
the  midst  of  a  garden.  The  beneficial  influence  of  the 
open  air  is  still  further  enhanced  when  combined  witi 
moderate  exercise.  The  two  united  refresh  the  system, 
help  the  circulation,  favour  transpiration,  vivify  thfl 
nerves,  and  strengthen  every  member. 

After  a  man  has  spent  several  days  busily  occupied 
in  his  study,  he  feels  his  head  heavy,  his  eyes  inflamed, 
his  mouth  and  lips  dry ;  a  certain  imeasiness  oppresses 


J 


CONCLUSIONS.  771 

the  chesty  with  a  slight  tension  at  the  pit  of  the  stomach ; 
he  is  more  inclined  to  ennui  );han  to  cheerfulness;  he 
sleeps  less  sonndlj,  and  feels  a  weight  and  a  numbness 
in  every  limb.  Khe  continues  to  shut  himself  up,  these 
adverse  symptoms  go  on  increasing,  until  serious  dis- 
order is  the  result.  Two  or  three  hours  in  the  country 
would  dissipate  them  completely,  and  restore  serenity, 
freshness,  and  vigour. 

Literary  people  are  scarcely  enough  aware  of  the 
influence  of  the  body  on  the  mind ;  and  yet  great 
geniuses  have  been  convinced  of  the  fact,  and  have 
admitted  that  the  mind,  as  well  as  the  body,  must 
submit  to  the  laws  of  medicine.  ^'  The  soul,''  said 
Descartes,  ^'  is  so  dependent  on  the  temperament  and 
disposition  of  the  bodily  organs,  that  if  it  were  possible 
to  discover  a  means  of  increasing  our  penetration,  it 
is  through  medicine  that  we  should  have  to  seek  iV* 
Every  literary  person  ought,  therefore,  strictly  to 
devote  at  least  an  hour  or  two  daily  to  exercise ; 
which  Boerhaave  advised  to  be  taken  before  dinner. 
Walking  has  its  advantages  ;  but  the  best  of  all  exercise 
is  riding  on  horseback. 

It  is  very  important,  nevertheless,  not  to  take  strong 
exercise  immediately  after  a  meal.  Digestion  is  neither 
the  fermentation,  nor  the  dissolution,  nor  the  trituration 
of  food,  but  an  operation  partaking  of  all  the  three, 
which  requires  quiet  for  its  due  performance.  It  needs 
the  assistance  of  the  nerves,  and  sufiSars  if  they  are  other- 
wise employed  by  violent  exertion.  The  food  should  not 
be  shaken  about  in  the  stomach ;  because  the  shaking 


772  CONCLUSIOKB. 

continually  distarbs  the  digestive  process  already  com- 
menced. For  this  reason,  of  all  exercise  immediately 
after  meals,  trotting  on  horseback  is  the  veiy  worst. 

Literary  persons  should  pay  attention  both  to  the 
selection  of  their  food,  and  to  its  qnantiiy.  Errors  in 
either  respect  produce  bad  consequences ;  but,  of  the  two, 
it  is  better  to  make  an  injudicious  choice  than  to  exceed 
a  due  allowance  as  to  quantity. 

Improper  aliments  are:  All  fat  and  greasy  things, 
which  ftirther  relax  the  fibres  of  the  stomach,  deaden  the 
action  of  the  saliva  and  the  gastric  juice,  and  occasion 
uneasiness  in  the  stomach,  in  consequence  of  the  slowness 
with  which  they  are  digested. 

All  viscous,  pasty,  glutinous  things  act  nearly  in  the 
same  way  as  greasy  things.  Amongst  these  are  included 
fried  things,  pancakes,  fritters,  creams,  the  feet  of  animals, 
&c  ;  certain  fish, — as  eels,  skate,  cuttle-fish,  <&c. 

All  meats  which  are  either  hard  naturally,  or  are 
hardened  by  salting  and  smoking,  on  which  a  weak 
digestion  acts  too  slowly, — rest  a  long  time  in  the 
stomach,  and  Irritate  it  by  their  weight  and  their  acrid 
qualities.  Pork,  sucking-pig,  ducks  and  geese,  are  not 
usually  aliments  adapted  to  the  digestive  powers  of 
sedentary,  convalescent,  or  literary  persons. 

Their  most  proper  aliments  consist  of:  The  young  and 
tender  meat  of  the  animals  which  are  usually  sent  to 
table ;  scaly  fish,  whose  flesh  is  firm  and  delicate,  whether 
from  the  sea,  the  river,  or  the  lake ;  the  cereal  grains, 
such  as  the  difierent  varieties  of  wheat,  rye,  barley,  oats, 
and  rice ;  those  vegetables  which  are  neither  too  laxative 


CONCLUSIONS.  773 

nor  too  acid ;  most  of  the  common  garden-roots,  which, 
besides  their  farinaceous  elements,  contain  a  proportion 
of  sugar  and  flavouring  matters,  whose  effects  are  very 
beneficial;  bread,  which  is  the  common  basis  of  the 
food  of  every  civilised  nation;  eggs;  milk;  well-ripened 
fruits. 

Meat  should  be  eaten  either  roasted  or  cooked  in  a 
very  small  quantity  of  water ;  when  boiled  in  a  large 
quantity  of  fluid,  many  of  its  nutritious  particles  go  into 
the  brotL  Tender  beef,  good  veal,  mutton  fed  in  dry 
pastures,  chicken,  capons  (when  not  too  fat),  guinea- 
fowl,  young  partridges,  and  leverets,  are  the  properest 
meats  for  delicate  persons,  and  to  which,  perhaps,  they 
would  do  right  in  confining  themselves.  Fish  is  never 
more  wholesome  than  when  it  is  boiled. 

Fresh  eggs,  uncooked  or  very  slightly  boiled  in  the 
shell,  are  a  mild  aliment,  which  does  not  irritate,  which 
is  very  nutritious,  and  is  easily  digested;  but  if  not 
fresh,  they  are  imwholesome,  and  if  boiled  hard,  indi- 
gestible. Eggs  are  good  for  persons  subject  to  acidity 
in  the  stomach.  Those  who  cannot  digest  the  entire 
substance  of  an  egg,  will  derive  benefit  from  taking  the 
white  only,  which  is  the  more  easy  of  digestion,  and 
affords  considerable  support  to  weak  constitutions. 

In  the  choice  of  food,  precautions  have  to  be  taken 
which  cannot  be  laid  down  in  general  rules,  but  which 
every  body  ought  to  discover  for  himself,  by  observing 
what  things  suit  and  what  disagree  with  him.  Some 
people  digest  meat  more  easily  than  vegetables,  which 
cause  a  disagreeable  sensation  at  the  pit  of  their  stomach; 


774  00NCLU8I0NS. 

whilst  others  find  them  lighter  than  meat,  being  leas 
liable  to  cause  sleeplessness  and  feverish  symptoma. 
Some  literary  persons  feel  acidity  after  eating  bread,  so 
that  they  are  obliged  to  restrict  themselves  to  a  very 
small  quantity.  Milk  does  not  suit  every  body,  and 
eggs  disagree  with  many  people,  without  its  being  pos- 
sible to  assign  a  reason.  In  short,  in  respect  to  food,  it  is 
absolutely  necessary  to  consult  each  individual  stomach. 

Men  of  letters  (which  includes  women  of  letters),  like 
Augustus  Caesar  and  all  other  delicate  persons,  cannot 
bear  severe  cold,  nor  great  heats,  which  try  them  sorely, 
because  it  is  more  difficult  to  protect  one's  self  against 
them  than  against  cold.  Milton,  in  summer,  used  to 
fall  into  a  state  of  prostration  which  bordered  on  intel- 
lectual dulness.  Less  illustrious  instances  are  &r  firom 
rare.  Severe  cold  irritates  the  nerves,  and  produces 
even  worse  efi*ects  on  nervous  persons.  Titerati  and 
literatsB  should  take  care  to  avoid  extremes.  It  is  not 
always  in  their  power  to  choose  their  place  of  residence ; 
the  country,  with  its  pure  air,  and  the  clear  thoughts  it 
inspires,  is  not  always  a  convenient  home  for  men  of 
letters,  whom  many  circumstances  compel  to  live  in 
cities ;  but  at  least  a  healthy  dwelling  may  be  found, 
with  lofty  ceilings,  well  lighted  and  well  ventilated,  ex- 
posed to  the  summer  breeze  and  the  winter  sunshine, 
and  with  no  source  of  noisome  smeU  or  exhalation  in  the 
neighbourhood. 

Gold  feet,  to  which  people  are  exposed  who  continue 
motionless  for  long  intervals  at  a  distance  firom  the  fire, 
are  injurious  to  weak  temperaments,  by  causing  heavi- 


^ 


C0N0LU8I0KS.  775 

ness  in  the  head,  pains  in  the  throat  and  chest,  and  ob- 
stinate colds;  thej  check  the  natural  transpiration, 
disturb  the  digestion,  occasion  violent  colics,  and  pre- 
vent sleep.  Scientific  men,  who  had  vainly  sought  sleep 
bj  the  use  of  potent  anodynes  (for  them  almost  always  a 
dangerous  remedy),  have  found  it  by  obeying  the  re- 
commendation to  warm  the  soles  of  their  feet  every  night 
before  the  fire,  before  going  to  bed,  even  to  the  point  of 
feeling  pain.  A  bottle  of  hot  water  applied  to  the  feet 
in  bed,  is  another  excellent  remedy.  With  literary 
people,  the  blood  has  such  a  tendency  to  rush  to  the 
head,  that  no  means  should  be  neglected  of  preventing 
that  accident.  Some,  to  continue  their  work  a  little 
longer,  tie  a  napkin  dipped  in  cold  water  round  their 
head ;  it  is  a  dangerous  experiment,  which  they  will  be 
wise  to  refrain  from ;  but  they  are  right  in  keeping  their 
head  habitually  either  slightly  covered  or  not  at  all,  and 
to  wash  it  in  cold  water  every  morning,  unless  the  hair 
be  an  obstacle. 

On  feeling  the  head  suddenly  oppressed  and  heated, 
the  best  thing  to  do  is  to  remain  for  some  moments  per- 
fectly motionless,  not  even  attempting  to  speak ;  after- 
wards, to  take  a  little  cold  water,  and  avoid  all  mental 
application  for  several  hours. 

For  the  same  reason,  studious  persons  should  avoid 
taking  an  after-dinner  nap,  which  has  a  tendency  to 
accumulate  blood  in  the  head.  If  it  is  an  old  habit,  or 
cannot  be  resisted,  the  slumber  should  be  made  as  short 
as  possible,  in  imitation  of  Augustus,  who,  when  he  took 
a  short  repose,  covered  his  feet  and  put  his  hand  before 


776  CONCLUSIONS. 

hb  ejes.  Before  going  to  sleep,  the  cravat  and  shirt- 
collar  shoold  be  nn£istened,  as  well  as  the  garters,  if  any. 
In.  general,  literaiy  persons  should  avoid  all  sorts  of  liga- 
tures as  much  as  possible ;  thej  are  injurious  to  every 
body,  by  checking  the  course  of  the  circulation,  and  the 
injuiy  they  do  increases  in  proportion  as  the  circula- 
ti<Hi  is  feeble.  It  is  very  important  to  do  literary  work 
in  loose  habiliments,  which  cause  no  compression,  and  do 
not  pretend  to  ^'  fit,''  like  the  dresses  in  which  people 
present  themselves  in  society.        ' 


INDEX. 


An  a  mixture   of  oxjgen  and 

azote,  19. 
Albumine,  17, 18. 
Alcohol  a  combastible,  14. 

„       its  discoyeiy,  633. 
Aliments  of  two  distinct  kinds, 

IS,  22. 
AU    the    Year    JRound,   quoted, 

647. 
Almond  biscuits,  A,  B,  C,  694. 
Almond  blancmange,  689. 
Angelica  liqueur,  648. 
Apple  butter,  101. 

„      drink,  640. 

„      fritters,  615. 

„      jelly,  98. 

„      meringoes,  604. 

„      pancakes,  612. 

„      pie,  German,  612. 

„  pudding,  590. 
Apples  and  rice,  590. 
Apple  sauce,  116. 

„     soup,  167. 
Apricot  fritters,  615. 
Apricots,  preserved,  625. 
Arrowroot  soup,  165. 
Artichoke-bottoms,  stewed,  538. 

fried,  539. 
k  ritalienne, 
540. 
Artichokes,  fried,  540. 

Jerusalem,  540. 

boiled,  541. 
fried,  541. 


ft 


99 


n 
n 
n 


n 
n 


Artichokes,  Jerusalem,  mashed 
541. 

„  plain-boiled,  537. 

„  raw,  537. 

Asparagus,  boiled,  557. 

„  as  green  pease,  657. 

Atherine,  the,  219. 
Ayoli,  67. 
Azote,  18-21. 

Baking,  43. 
Bandoline,  666. 
Barley-water,  639. 

„      negus,  651. 
Batter,  for  frying,  75. 

w       M       n      vegetables    or 

fritters,  539,  614. 
Beans  and  bacon,  555. 

„    broad  or  Windsor,  656. 

„    and  cream,  556. 

„    kidney,  551. 
Best,  340. 

„     boiled,  salted,  344. 

„  „    in  a  hurry,  346. 

„       unsalted,  348. 

„      cheek,  stewed,  363. 

„     cold,  miroton  of,  358. 

„      foot,  355. 

„     heart,  354. 

„      hunter's,  345. 

„     kidney,  359. 

„     ik  la  mode,  349. 

„     palates,  360. 

„     to  pickle,  3457 


n 


778 


INDEX. 


Beef,  roAst,  348. 

„     loin,  343. 


99 


ft 
ft 


n 


n 


n 


n 


n         „     ribs,  343. 
„     rolled,  347. 
„      shin,  soup,  144. 
„     steaks,  broiled,  351. 
„         „       French,  350. 
„         „       pie,  352. 
„         „       padding,  351. 

M  „        boiled,  449. 

„      stewed,  352. 
„     stewed,  343. 
„     tail  soup,  161. 
„     tea,  139,  690. 
„       „    Dr.  Dobell's,  690. 
„       „    Dr.  Lankester's,  690. 
„       „    Mrs.  W.  H.  W.  s,  690. 
„     tongue,  356. 
„         „        braised,  358. 
au  gratin,  357. 
miroton  of,  358. 
roast,  358. 
„  „        scarlet,  356. 

Beer  soup,  168, 169. 

„    from  sugar  and  hops,  642. 
Beignets,  614. 

Bernard  Palissy,  storj  of,  28. 
Beteraobs,  632. 
Biixs  or  Fare,  690. 

„  „     for  literary  people 

and  quiet  fami- 
lies, 698. 
„  M     ^^^        numerous 

guests,  704. 
„  „     for  Sundays,  722. 

Biscuits,  almond,  A,  B,  C,  594. 
„        common,  695. 
cracknels,  599. 
lemon,  595. 
pulled-bread,  598. 
sugar,  603. 
sweet,  593. 


ft 


Biscuits,  wine,  599. 
Bisk  of  crawfish,  188. 
Blancmange,  609. 

„  almond,  589. 

Bleu,  pike  au,  212. 
Bloaters,  96. 
Blood,  its  duties,  27-30. 
Boiling,  46. 
Brains,  calf's,  i  la  poulette,  121. 

„       sheep's,  377,  378. 
Braising,  44. 
Brandy,  cherry,  648. 
Brawn,  from  leg  of  pork,  417. 
Bread-dice,  for  soups,  174. 

„      and  butter  padding,  626. 

„      sauce,  117. 

„      without  yeast,  676. 
Brill,  256. 
Broccoli,  522. 

„       American  way,  626. 
BnnUng,  44. 
BnoTHS  AMD  Soups,  133. 
Broth,  beef-tea,  139. 

„      chicken,  140. 
consomme,  138. 
flint,  176. 
in  an  hoar,  139. 
meager,  174. 
mutton,  141. 

„      rabbit,  140. 

„      Scotch  broose,  141. 

„      stock,  138. 

„      real,  140. 
Browning,  68. 

„  of  pea-shells,  550. 

Brussels  sprouts,  521. 
BuUaoe  cheese,  98. 
Bullock's  heart,  354. 

„  „     hashed,  355. 

Batter,  apple,  101. 

„       garlic,  67. 

f,      melted  or  oiled,  103. 


M 


f> 


INDEX. 


779 


Cabbjlob,  plain-boiled,  521.            | 

Carrots  i  la  m^nag^re,  546. 

« 

,        red,  stewed,  525. 

„       pudding.  A,  586 ;  B,  587. 

» 

,        German,  529. 

„       stewed,  546. 

K 

»        and  sausages,  524. 

Caseine,  its  constituents,  16. 

K 

Sayoy ,  stewed  in  cream, 

Cassis,  black-currant  liqueur,  648. 

626. 

Caviare,  81. 

K 

»        slaw,  hot,  526. 

Cauliflowers,  baked.  A,  B,  523. 

91 

,           „    cold,  526. 

„            plain,  522. 

r 

,        soup,  145,  146. 

„            fried,  524. 

>i 

staffed,  527. 

„           with  tomato  sauce. 

Cabinet  pudding,  625. 

531. 

Cake,  Bath,  594. 

Celery,  fried,  536. 

n 

children's,  593. 

„       sauce,  120. 

ft 

country,  602. 

„       stewed  brown,  536. 

f* 

cup,  595. 

„       stewed  white,  635. 

• 

lemon,  595. 

Charlotte  of  apples,  613. 

79 

light  plain,  608. 

„        Busse,  612. 

f* 

„     sponge,  593. 

Chartreuse  of  partridges,  pigeons, 

9t 

rice,  boiled,  589. 

&c.,  499. 

t» 

rich,  594. 

Cheese,  Bath,  670. 

n 

rock,  603. 

„      buUace  and  damson,  98. 

n 

small  rice,  696. 

M       calf 's-head,  89. 

n 

soda,  603. 

„       cream,  670. 

n 

sponge,  602. 

„       from  pease,  16. 

n 

tea,  602. 

„       pork,  88. 

n 

tipsy,  614. 

„       potted,  83. 

ft 

minced  yeal,  385. 

Cheese-cakes,  696. 

Calf' 

s  brains  i  la  poulette,  121. 

„            lemon,  598. 

tt 

heart,  &c.    See  Vbal. 

„           potato,  596. 

Caramel,  78. 

„           rice,  596. 

Carp 

,  the,  228. 

„            Teritable,  698. 

ft 

broiled,  231. 

Cherry  brandy,  648. 

1 

a  la  chambord,'232. 

„       dish,  cold,  613. 

>» 

in  court-bouillon,  205. 

„       soup,  167. 

99 

fried,  230. 

„       (or  other)  tart,  622. 

99 

marinade  of,  230. 

Chestnut  pudding,  588. 

99 

matelote  of,  207. 

„       sauce,  456. 

99 

stewed,  231. 

„        soup,  144. 

99 

stuffed,  231. 

Chicken  broth,  140. 

99 

i  la  Yenetienne,  230. 

„        curry,  335. 

Carrageen,  677. 

„        salad,  583. 

Carrots  and  cream,  547. 

Chicory-roots,  545. 

780 


IKDEX. 


Chicory  salad,  572. 

Compote  of  pears,  721. 

Chilblams,  De  Rheim*s  paper  for, 

C0NCT.U8IOKB,  732. 

683. 

Condiments,  4. 

„          Baspul*8  treatment  of, 

Conger,  283. 

682. 

Consomm€,  138. 

Chloride  of  sodium  (salt),  30. 

CouTalescents,  treatment  0^  735. 

Chocolate  cream,  611. 

Cookery,  sendee  rendered  by,  ^ 

Clouted  cream,  101. 

39,  41. 

Coal-fish,  278. 

„         teachers  of,  123. 

Cobbler,  fruit,  650. 

Cough,  for  a,  677,  681. 

„       sherry,  649. 

„       drink  for  a,  681. 

Cock-»-leekie,  143. 

„      medicine,  681. 

Cockles,  hustled,  90. 

Court^bouiUon,  77,  204. 

„       pickled,  92. 

„              pike  in,  212. 

,,       sauce,  106. 

„              Ude's  and  other. 

„       scalloped,  289. 

205,206. 

Cocks'-combs,  72. 

Cow-heel,  355. 

„           artificial,  73. 

Cowslips  and  cream,  684. 

Cod,  266. 

Crab,  to  boU,  292. 

„    crimped,  274. 

„      dressed,  294. 

^    fresh,  272. 

Cracknels,  599. 

„    head  and  ^shoulders,  baked. 

Crawfish,  bisk,  or  soup  0^  188. 

276. 

„        in  court-bouillon,  77. 

„             „           „            boiled, 

Cream,  artificial,  608. 

275. 

„      chocolate,  611. 

„    to  heat  up  remnants  of,  271, 

„              „        to  be  eaten  with 

277. 

cake,6S2. 

„    roe,  273. 

„       clouted,  101. 

„    salt,  268. 

„       coffee,  610. 

„      „     balls,  270. 

^  „       cold,  667. 

„      „     hash,  270. 

„       colonial,  630. 

„      „     kedgeree,  269. 

„       and  cowslips,  584. 

„      „     picked  up,  269. 

„       dietetic  value  of,  689. 

„      „     toast,  270. 

„       lemon,  608. 

„      „     tongues  and  sounds,  268. 

„       rice,  60.'5. 

»      »»            »            w     pie,  271. 

„       tart,  623. 

Codlings,  279. 

„       tea,  611. 

Ccetebs  in  Search  of  a  Cooi(,  quoted, 

„       vanilla,  610. 

67,  68. 

„       virgin,  605. 

Collared  eel,  85. 

„       whipped,  612. 

„        meat,  86. 

„       winter,  629. 

Combustion,  aliments  of,  13. 

Cucumber,  cooked,  530. 

mosx. 


781 


» 


w 


Caeumber,  preserred  sweet,  100, 
624. 
„  pur^  of,  369. 

soap,  155. 
stuffed,  530. 
Ciira9oa,  home-made,  647. 
Currant  jelly,  A,  B,  C,  619,  620. 
Curry,  chicken  or  rabbit,  335. 
„      pheasant  or  partridge,  336. 
„      powder,  668. 
„      tripe,  355. 
Carries  in  general,  336. 
Custard  baked  in  a  saucepan,  604. 

„       boiled,  605. 
Cuthill,  Mr.,  quoted,  572. 

Damson  Chbssb,  98. 
Daube  of  goose,  491,  492. 
Delamer,  Mr.,  quoted,  574. 
Dennis  de  Coetlogon,  quoted,  45, 

133,  560. 
Diet  of  bread  and  water,  24. 

DlLCKKTB  AND  StIMITLANTS,  637. 

Dinners.    See  Bnxs  op  Fabb. 

Dip,  Yorkshire,  111. 

Disease,  the  tonic  treatment  of, 

750. 
Dobell,  Dr.,  quoted,  688. 
Dram-drinking,  effects  of,  635. 
Drink,  apple,  640. 
Drinks,  to  cool  in  sultry  weather, 
636. 

„       for  a  cough,  681. 
Drink,  cream-of-tartar,  650. 
Drinks,  fermented,  632. 
Dbinks,  Hbbb,  651. 
Drink,  May,  643. 
4     „      Raspail's,   for   labourers, 

651. 
Drops,  lemon,  602. 

„       ratafia,  602. 
Dulse,  pepper,  680. 


Dulse,  red,  679. 
Duck,  boiled,  443. 

„      with  oliyes,  488. 

„      roast,  486. 

„      stewed  with  green  pease, 
487. 

„      with  turnips,  488. 

„      wild,  489. 
Dutch  herring,  95. 

„      sauce,  123,  124. 

£au  Sbdatiyb,  682. 
Eel,  collared,  85. 
„    conger,  283. 
„    k  ritalienne,  243. 
„    matelote  of,  207. 
„    patties,  245. 
„    pie,  245. 
„    piqu^,  243. 
„    i  la  Poulette,  244. 
„    sand,  220. 
„    to  skin,  240. 
„    soup,  193. 
„    spitchcocked,  244. 
„    stewed,  242. 
„    aiaTartare,  241, 
Boos,  301. 
Eggs,  &  PAUemande,  319. 

„     I  I'Aurore,  321. 

„     boiled  soft,  301. 

„     cheesey,  305. 

„     curried,  319. 

„      DigegtibU,  SOI, 

„     on  their  dish,  301. 

„      fined,  304. 

„         „     in  batter,  304. 

„     and  gravy,  306. 

„     IndigeMtibUf  318. 

„     in  jelly,  323. 

„     i  la  maitre   d'hdtel,  320 
321. 

„     mashed,  308. 


782 


EggB,  inatelottt  o(  903. 

„     monster,  905. 

M     ^  la  nc>ge»  317. 

„     omelette,  cold-fish,  319. 

,.  ,,       firoitpreserreySlS. 

„  „        pliun,  309. 

„  „        ram,  314. 

„  „        salmon,  311. 

f,  „        saToniy,  316. 

„  f,        sonfflee,  316. 

„  „        strawberry,  314. 

f,  „        sweet,  313, 315. 

9  ^       sweet-heib,  310. 

M  „        Teal-kidnej,  310. 

M     patties,  323. 

„     pie,  323. 

„     poached,  302, 

„  „        soup  ot,  173. 

n     i  la  ponlette,  320. 

M     preserred,  307. 

„     sandwiches,  324. 

„     scambled,  307. 

M      snowjr,  317. 

M     stalled  with  anchovies,  318. 
n  paraley,  319. 

„     an  surprise,  322. 

^     en  surprise,  321. 

n     toast,  304. 

„     with  tomato  sance,  319. 

„     a  la  tripe,  319. 
Elbmzsts,  64. 
Elixir  of  life,  169. 
Endire,  stewed,  531. 

„       salad,  571. 
Entriet,  325. 
Escargots  (snails),  92. 
Exercise  and  labour,  their  dif- 
ference, 732. 

Fakct  Soup,  159. 
Fashionable    salad-maker,    the, 
566. 


Fat,  9,  687,  688. 

„    a  c<Hnbnstible,  12, 13. 

M    dietetic  ralue  of,  688. 

„    how  to  grow,  23,  26. 

0    persons,  adnce  to,  689. 

9    the  savings-bank  of  the  blood, 

27. 

„    a  substitute  for  butter,  75. 

„    its  uses,  688. 

Fibrine,  15. 

FuH,195. 

Fish,  the  boiling  o(  210. 

„     as  diet,  196. 

„     their  distribution,  202. 

„     flat,  conformation  of^  254. 

„     flour,  207. 

„         „     pudding,  268. 

Fkt-flsh,254. 

„         pie,  259. 

Flemish  soup,  145. 

Flesh-forming  food,  423,  424. 

Flint  broth,  176. 

Food,  the  cheapest  and  best  kinds 

of;  686. 

Food,  a  combustible,  10, 11. 

„      flesh-forming,  423. 

„     necessity  of,  2. 

„     Tariety  of  desirable,  3. 

Forcemeat,  75. 

Fowl,  boQed,  442. 

„     broUed,  484. 

„     curried,  335. 

„     roast   with    water-cresses, 
482. 

French  beans,  551. 

„  French  fashion,  552. 

„  with    panley   and 

butter,  552. 

„  an  gras,  552. 

M  cold,      as      salady 

553. 

M  pickled,  669. 


INDEX. 


783 


Fricasseed  frogs,  S84. 

„         yeal  (white),  393. 
Fritters,  614. 

yy         hollow,  616. 
Fritures,  219. 
Frogs,  fricasseed,  2841 
Fruit-ade,  651. 
Fruit  cobblers,  650. 

„     liqueurs,  647  et  seq» 
Frummetj,  629. 
Frying,  51. 
Furniture  paste,  666. 
„        polish,  665. 
Furs,  to  preserve,  669. 

Gamb  an©  Poultbt,  439. 
Game,  for  invalids,  695. 
Garbures,  159, 160. 
Garlic,  31-33. 

„      butter  of,  67. 

„      wine  or  vinegar,  67. 
Gkstritis,  37. 
Gbitebalitibs,  1. 
Giblets,  492. 
Giblet  pie,  493. 

„      soup,  161. 
Gingerbread,  A,  B,  C,  D,  E,  F, 

G,  597-599. 
Ginger,  essence  of,  667. 

„       pop,  A,  B,  641,  642. 

„       wine,  644. 
Gluten,  14. 

Goose,   en    daube.    A,  B,    491, 
492. 

„      roast,  490. 
Gooseberry  sauce,  116. 
Grape  wine,  645. 
Gravy  soup,  149. 
Grease,  its  uses,  9. 
Greengages,  preserved  in  syrup, 

624. 
Grilling,  44. 


Gruel,  oatmeal,  694. 
Gurnards,  the,  282. 

Haddock,  279. 
Hake,  277. 
Halibut,  258. 

„       stewed,  259. 
Hams,  to  boil,  414. 
„      to  cure,  412. 
„      to  pickle,  B,  C,  D,  413.. 
„      eaten  raw,  96. 
Hare,  civet  of,  476. 
»     jugged,  478. 
„     pat^,  86,  87. 
„     roast,  478. 
„     soup,  149. 
Haricots,  cold  boiledv  555. 
„        and  cream,  554. 
„        in  gravy,  554. 
„        g^een,  French  fashion, 

552. 
„        green,  with  meat-gravy, 
552. 
white,  dried,  553. 
„     a  la  maitre  d*hd- 
tel,  554. 
Hashes,  see  the  respective  meats. 
Heat,employmentof  in  cookery,41 . 
Hen's  milk,  649. 
HsBB  Bbinks,  651. 
Herbs,  sweet,  their  kinds,  65. 
„  „      in  powder,  66. 

Herring,  Dutch,  95. 
„        f^sh,  281,  282. 
„        red,  95. 
Honey,  8. 

„       in  gingerbread,  600. 
Hooker,  Dr.,  quoted,  515. 
Hooping-cough,  for,  677. 
Hobs  d'CEuybes,  79. 
Horse-radish,  67. 

„  sauce,  118, 119« 


M 


M 


784 


INDEX* 


Hotch-potch,  US. 

Household  maxima,  Dr.  Bdward 

Smith's,  686. 
Hustled  cockles,  90. 
„       mussels,  91. 

ICB,  artificially  produced,  637. 
Inorganic  substances  contained  in 

the  human  body,  428. 
Inralids,  game  dressed  for,  695. 
„       the  instincts  o^  40,  653. 

Jack,  225. 
Jaumange,  609. 
Jelly,  apple,  98. 

„     currant.  A,  B,  C,  619,  620. 

„     lemon,  622. 

„     marbled,  618. 

„     orange,  619. 

„     orange-apple,  98. 

„      quince,  98. 

„     rice,  621. 
Jerusalem  artichoke,  540,  541. 
John  Dory,  265. 

„        „     boiled,  266. 
Julienne  soup,  162. 

EiDiXKYB,      See   the    respectiTe 

meats. 
Kidney  beans,  cold,  as  salad,  553. 
„  „      with  parsley  and 

butter,  552. 
„  „      See  haricots    and 

French  beans. 
Knox,  Mr.,  quoted,  508. 
Knuckle  of  veal,  390. 

Labour  and  exercise,  their  differ- 

ence,  732. 
Labourer's  drink,  Baspail's,  651. 
liait  de  poule,  649. 
Lamb,  361. 

„     chops,  366. 


Lamb  chops,  with  cacmiiber 

368. 
„     leg  of,  roasted  m  a 

pan,  372. 
Lankester,  Dr.,  quoted,  687,  «8§. 
Launce,  220: 
Laurel-leayes,  to  be  aToided,  675. 

Layer,  680. 
Lemon  cakes,  595. 

„      jeUy.  622. 

„      pudding.  A,  B.  C,  591. 

„      whey,  651. 
Lemonade,  639. 

„         saline,  IUsp«3*s,  SSSu 

Ling,  277. 

Linseed  tea.   See  Aniseed  tisaee. 

Liqueurs,  647. 
Liqueur,  angelica,  648. 

cassis,  or  black  caxnat. 

648. 
cnra^oa,  647, 
„        orange,  647. 
„        raspberry,  648. 
„        Noyau,  649. 
Literary  persons,  rales  for,  7S 

etseq. 
Liyer  sauces,  111. 

„     Teal,  381,  382. 
Lobsters,  to  boil,  292. 
curry,  297. 
au  gratin,  298, 299. 
roasted,  299. 
salad,  295. 
sauce,  114. 
„  „       without  lobster, 

115. 
Logic,  gastronomic,  665. 
London  Societyt  quoted,  134,  29S, 

374,  604. 
Lotion,  sedative,  Raspail's,  682. 
Luncheon  for   professional  and 
business  people,  744. 


n 


n 


» 


n 


INDEX. 


785 


Hagkarel,  280. 

„  a  la  maitre  d'hotel, 

123. 
„  toasted,  44. 

Mao^  Jean,  quoted,  13,  21. 
Made  Dishes,  325. 
Malt  wine,  A,  B,  643,  644. 
Marinades,  75. 
Marmalade,  orange,  620. 

„  quince,  97. 

Marsh   marigold,    unwholesome, 

109. 
Matelote  of  carp,  &c.,  207. 

„         „     „    4  la  marinidre, 

210. 
9*         »  eggs,  803. 
„         „  rabbit,  209. 
May  drink,  643. 
Mayonnaise,  a,  to  arrange,  125. 
Meager  broth,  174. 
„       soup,  175. 
Melons,  preserved,  101. 
Melted  butter,  103,  104. 

„  „      Irish,  105. 

Michelet,  quoted,  195,  765. 
Milk,  to  boil,  70. 
„     „  increase  the  secretion  of, 

24,  25. 
„     punch.  A,  B,  650. 
Miroton  of  tongue,  358. 

„        „  cold  beef,  359. 
Mock  lobster  sauce,  115. 
„     turtle  soup,  147. 
„     mock  turUe  soup,  187. 
Mole,  337. 
Monkshood,  its  root  poisonous, 

674. 
Moss,  Irish,  677. 
Mouthful  soups,  154. 
Mullet,  281. 

Mulligatawny  soup,  161. 
Mushrooms,  562. 


Mushrooms,  button,  69. 

n 

sauce,  111. 

Mussels,  hustled,  91. 

» 

pickled,  92. 

w 

ii  la  poulette,  291. 

» 

in  powder,  291. 

n 

scalloped,  289. 

Mustard  foot-bath,  676. 

M 

poultice,  676. 

Mutton  aivd  Lamb,  361. 

» 

boiled,  leg,  364. 

n 

„     neck,  364. 

n 

M      shoulder,  364. 

n 

brains,  377. 

n 

„      fried,  378. 

n 

„      i     la    poulette, 

378. 

n 

M      roasted,  378. 

n 

broth,  141. 

n 

chop,  Soyer's,  365. 

n 

cutlets,  k  la  jardinidre. 

371. 

it 

leg  of,  in  gravy,  363. 

» 

harricoed,  376. 

n 

with  haricots,  375. 

ft 

hashed,  376. 

M 

kidneys,  broiled,  369. 

W 

„        in  champagne, 

371. 

n 

„        fried,  370. 

n 

„        roasted,  370. 

n 

„        sautM,  369. 

ft 

loin  and  saddle,  365. 

n 

minced,  balls,  379. 

ti 

roast,  leg,  361. 

ft 

„      shoulder,  362. 

tf 

seven  hours*  leg,  363. 

ft 

shoulder,  k  la  Ste.  M^ne- 

hould,  374. 

ft 

steak,  the  Doctor's,  366. 

.•» 

tongues,  with  puree,  375. 

>» 

„     enpapillote8,375. 

3£ 

786 


INDKX. 


Mutton  trotters,  371. 

„  n       k  ]m  poalette, 

37i. 

Nbat*«  foot,  855. 
Negus,  barley,  651. 
Nitrogen,  18, 19. 
NoniUes  soup,  160. 
Noyau  liqueur,  649. 
Nutrition,  aliments  of,  13. 

Oats,  tlieir  ralne  as  food,  694. 

Oat-groat  soup,  167. 

Oatmeal  gruel,  694. 

Oil,  8. 

Oiled  butter,  108. 

Olives,  67. 

Omelette.    See  Eggs. 

Onions,  &e.,  84. 

„      pickled,  white,  669. 
Onion  soup,  164. 
Onions,  stuifed,  530. 
Ofxkations,  41. 
Orange  Jelly,  619. 

liqueur,  647. 
marmalade,  690. 
„       salad,  584. 
„      wine,  646. 
Orangeade,  639. 
Ox,  the,  hie  office  in  nature,  91. 
Ox-cheek,  stewed,  853. 
„    hear^  354. 
„       „      hashed,  855. 
„    tail  soup,  161. 
Oysters,  70. 

„       fried,  288. 
Oyster  liquor,  aromatised,  683. 
„      pie,  288. 
„      pudding,  290. 
Oysters,  the  quantity  eaten,  198. 
roasted,  288. 
scalloped,  289. 


M 


>  »t 


Oysters,  their 

„       soup,  19a 
stewed,  S87. 


M 


M 
ft 


l» 


Pakada,  695. 
Pancakes,  apple,  612. 

German,  611. 
plain,  611. 
Parsley,    curled,    mdrmmMrngt    ot 

growing,  674. 
Parsnip  wine,  646. 
Partridge,  boiled,  443. 

„         chartreoae  oC  499L 
M         curried.  336. 
Paste,  for  standing  criist»  597. 

„     sweet,  597. 
Pates  de  foie  gras,  31. 
Pat6      „         „       atoiy      of    s, 

465. 
„    hare,  86,  87. 
„    pigeon,  503. 
„    rabbit,  482. 
„    sourkrout,  589. 
„    wild-fowl,  87. 
Patties,  331. 

cold  fish,  871. 
eel,  245. 
„       egg,  223. 
Pears,  compote  of,  681. 

„      salad  o!^  584. 
Pease,  their  value  as  diet,  480. 
n     S^Jy  ^^  sweet  and  aour 

sauce,  531. 
„      green,  English  fashion,  548. 
French  fashion,  547. 
soup,  154. 
„  without  green 
pease,  155. 
„      pudding,  419. 
soup,  150-5. 
.„    hasty,  or  i  la  minute, 
418. 


» 


n 
»f 

M 


M 

n 


n 


IHDBX. 


■87 


PeMe,  sugar,  or  •kin1eflft»  549. 
Peashell  browning,  for  soups,  550. 
„       puree,         „      „      550. 
Pepper,  84. 
Perch,  the,  836. 

M      with  sweet  h^rbs,  239. 
„      ii  la  waster-fish,  239. 
„      in  wine,  239. 
Perfume,  a,  667. 
Periwinkles,  94. 
Pheasant,  curried,  336. 
„        roasted,  494. 
Pickle,  Anglo-Indian,  668. 
„      for  hams,  413. 
„      for  tongues,  414. 
Pickled  cockles,  92. 

„       French  beans,  669. 
„       mussels,  92. 
„       onions,  white,  669. 
Pie,  beef-steak,  852. 
„    calf 's-head,  89. 
„    cod's   sounds  and   tongues, 

271. 
„    conger,  283. 
„    eel,  ^4d. 
„    egg.  323. 
„    fla<^fish,  259. 
„    giblet,  493. 
„    oyster,  288. 
„    pigeon,  562. 
„    pork  and  apples,  433. 
„    rook,  504. 
„    Teal,  392.  * 
Pigeon,  broiled,  505. 

chartreuse  of,  499. 
k  la  crapaudine,  505. 
en  papiUotes,  507. 
pat^  (French),  503. 
with  green  pease,  506. 
pie,  baked,  502.- 
pudding,  boiled,  448. 
roast  (French),  504. 


» 
>» 

19 

» 
99 
»» 


Pigeon,  roasted  in  a  stew-paa, 
506. 
„       stuifed,  507. 
„       i  la  Tartare,  506. 
Pig.    See  Pork. 
Pike,  222. 

„     baked  whole,  226. 

„     boiled,  225,  227. 

„      fried  piecemeal,  224. 

„     i  la  Genevaise,  227. 

„      small,  fried  whole,  225. 
Pillaw,  meagre,  329. 

„      moderate-sised,  328. 

„      Persian,  327. 

n      Turkish,  329. 
Plaice,  broiled,  257. 

„      au  gratin,  257. 
Plum  pudding,  585. 

„  „        au  VesuTe,  686. 

„     sauce,  436. 
Poached  eggs,  302. 

„  „     soup,  173. 

Pop,  ginger,  641. 
PoJtK,  398. 

„      its  wholesomeness,  399. 

„      trichina  in,  discovery  of, 
899. 

„      trichinn  in,  remedial  mea- 
sures against,  410. 

„      and  apple  pie,  433. 

M      brawn,  417. 

„      chap,  cheek,  or  face,  429. 

„      cheese,  88,  418. 

„      chops,  436. 

„      feet,alaSainteMenehould, 
430. 

„      feet,  stuffed  and  truffled, 
431. 

„      fry  or  haslet,  429. 

„      leg  of,  boiled,  416. 

„      loin  and  sparerib,  432. 

„      pie,  cold,  433. 


788 


INDBZ. 


19 

n 

n 


Fork,  quarter,  486. 
„      roMt  bladebone,  433, 
„         „     leg  of,  432. 
„      sucking-pig,  434. 
„  „         plum  sanoe  for, 

436. 
Posset,  treacle,  660. 
Potage  k  la  jardinidre,  163. 

„      4  la  reine,  158. 
Potatoes,  boiled,  560. 

it  la  maitre  dlidtel,  128. 
mashed,  561. 
saut^,  661. 
fritters,  615. 
puddings.  A,    B,  687, 
588. 
Potted  beef;  83. 
„      cheese,  83. 
ff      herring,  85. 
„      mackarel,  84. 
M      sprats,  85. 

POULTBT  AND  GaMS,  439. 

Powder,  curry,  668. 

„        sweet-herb,  66. 
Preserred  apricots,  626. 

cucumbers,  100. 

„  sweet,  100, 

.624. 
„        greengages,  624. 
„         melons,  101. 
Professional  persons,  rules  for> 

743  et  seq. 
Pudding,  apple,  French,  590. 

batter,  baked,  with  fruit, 

627. 
batter,  baked,  with  meat, 

627. 
beef-steak,  boiled,  449. 
breadrand-butter,  626. 
cabinet,  625. 
carrot,  A,  586;  B,  587. 
chestnut^  588. 


9» 
99 


tt 


ft 


9> 


Pudding,  lemon.  A,  B,  C,  691. 

„        oyster,  290. 

„        pease,  419. 

„        pigeon,  448. 

„        plum,  685. 

„  f,    tM.  VesuTe,  586. 

^       potato,    sweet,    A,  B, 
687,  588. 

„        snipe,  448. 

„        Yorkshire,  628. 
Pumpkin  soup,  163. 
Punch  milk.  A,  B,  650. 
Purged  la Crecy,  156. 

Quacks,  to  be  aroided,  25. 
Quenelles,  233. 
Quince  jelly,  98. 
„      marmalade,  97. 

Babbit  broth,  140. 
„      curried,  335. 
„      fticasseed,  338. 
„      a  la  jardiniere,  338. 
„      patg,  482. 
„      matelote  of,  209. 
„      roast   (Warren   receipt), 

481. 
„      smothered  in  onions,  417. 
„      wild,  boiled,  444. 
Raisin  wine,  646. 
Raspberry  rinegar.  A,  B,  640. 
Red  cabbage,  stewed,  525. 
„         „        German,  529. 
Red  herring,  95. 

„    sprats,  96. 
Rhubarb,  its  introduction,  616. 

„        tart,  617. 
Rice  and  apples,  690. 
„    boiled,  for  curries,  335. 
„    cake,  boiled,  589. 
„    jelly,  621. 
„    mUk,  165, 166. 


JSDtX. 


789 


Bioe  and  onion  soup,  104. 

Salad,  salmagundi,  581. 

1 

v^ater,  660. 

M 

seedling  lettuce  and  other 

Roasting,  44. 

small,  579. 

»i 

in  a  stew-pan,  372* 

n 

Sidney  Smith's,  570. 

Rook 

pie,  504. 

M 

water-cress,  581. 

Rotisseurs  or  roasters,  43. 

Salmon,  the,  213. 

Bouz 

,  to  make  a,  127. 

t» 

boUed,  214. 

n 

white,  128. 

99 

kipper,  217. 

Rump-steak,  broiled,  351. 

f* 

salted,  217. 

„           stewed,  352. 

ft 

soup,  192. 

Runners,  scarlet,  556. 

» 

soused,  215. 

fl 

steaks,  216. 

Saok 

powder,  66. 

Salsify,  boiled,  542. 

Sago 

soup,  165. 

M 

fried,  543. 

Salads,  564. 

Salt, 

its  uses,  30. 

Salad,  capachin*s  beard,  574. 

Samphire,  566,  669. 

f* 

chartreuse  of,  579. 

Sand  eel,  220. 

n 

chicken,  583. 

Sandwiches,  hard  egg,  324. 

N 

chicory,  blanched,  572. 

Sauces,  103. 

n 

cooked,   Dr.    Kitchener's, 

Sauce,  anchoTj,  113. 

578. 

ft 

apple,  116. 

M 

com,  580. 

ft 

bechamel*  109,  110. 

M 

cowslips  and  cream,  584. 

ft 

blanquette,  121. 

M 

dandelion,  blanched,  575. 

ft 

brain,  117. 

n 

Doctor's,  the,  577. 

ft 

bread,  117. 

n 

Dumas's,  569. 

ft 

brown,  127. 

M 

East-Anglian,  569. 

ft 

caper,  108. 

If 

endive,  571. 

ft 

celery,  120. 

n 

d'Estr^,  583. 

ft 

chestnut,  456. 

ft 

general  rule  for,  568. 

ft 

cockle,  106.  , 

n 

lamb-lettuce,  580. 

ft 

cream,  130. 

t» 

lettuce  and  cream,  582. 

ft 

Dutch,  123,  124. 

» 

lettuce,  seedling,  579. 

ft 

egg,  113. 

»* 

lobster,  295. 

• 

ft 

Espagnole,  131. 

n 

miche,  580. 

ft 

fennel,  108. 

n 

maker,    the    fiuhionable, 

ft 

fishliyer,  111. 

566. 

ft 

fowl-liver,  HI. 

n 

mixture.  A,  577. 

ft 

gooseberry,  116. 

ft 

„        B,  C,  and  D,  578. 

ft 

Hollandaise,  123. 

1 

ft 

orange,  584. 

ft 

horse-radish,  118, 119. 

1 

partridge,  582. 

ft 

hurry,  in  a,  132. 

n 

pear,  584. 

ft 

lobster,  114. 

790 


INDEX* 


Sauce,  lobster,  without  lobster, 
115. 
„      maftre  d'hdtel,  122. 
„      matrimony.  111. 
„      maj^nnaise,  124. 
„      minim's,  130. 
„      mint,  119. 
„      mushroom.  111. 
„      onion,  118. 

oyster,  105. 

parslej,  107. 

piquant,  121. 


ft 

n 

n 

„      plum,  436. 

„      poor  man's,  126. 


>» 


>i 


poulette,  121. 
Proren9ale,  129. 
rayigote,  129. 
Robert,  129. 
„      roux,  127. 
M      Salmi,  130. 
„      sharp,  132. 
„      shrimp,  112. 
„      Spanish,  131. 
„      suage,  131. 
M      sweet,  105. 
„  „      for  plum  pudding, 

585. 
„      sweet-herb,  120. 
„      tartar,  126. 
„      tomato,  119,  437. 
„      nnirersal,  120. 
„      white,  105. 
„      wine,  117. 
Sauerkohl  or  krout,  528. 
Sauerkohl  with  Borsdorf  apples, 

528. 
Sauerkraut  in  a  hurry,  529. 

„         pate,  529. 
Sausages  and  cabbage,  524. 
SoMtiing^  54. 

Sararin,  Brillat,  quoted,  135,  19$, 
306,  439,  635. 


Sararin,  Brillat,  his  elixir  of  lifo, 

169. 
Sarory,  66. 
SaToy  cabbage  stewed  in  crwun, 

526. 
Scallops,  290. 

„         of  Teal  or  chicken,  290. 
Scalloped  oysters  and  cockles,  289. 
Scarlet-runners,  555. 
Scolding  dames,  receipt  for,  664. 
Scoraonera,  545. 
Sea-kale,  its  history,  532 

„        boiled  white,  533. 

„        1^  la  poirrade,  535. 

„        stewed  brown,  535. 
Seasoning,  degrees  of,  4,  5. 

„         use  and  abuse  of,  5,  6. 
Sedentary  persons,  rules  for,  787. 
Seltier  water,  641. 
Sheep's  trotters,  &c.  See  Mutton. 
Sherry  cobbler,  649. 

„       President's,  638. 
Sherbet,  641. 
Shin-K>f-beef  soup,  144. 
Shrimps,  to  boil,  300. 

M        red,    discoTeiy    of,    at 
Great  Yarmouth,  112. 
Shrimp  sauce,  112. 
Skate,  279,  280. 
Skey,  Mr.,  quoted,  750. 
Skin,  functions,  &c.,  of  the,  740 

Slaw,  cold,  526. 

„     hot,  526. 
Smelt,  218. 

„      sand,  or  atherine,  219. 
Smith,  Dr.  Edward,  quoted,  686, 

738,  745,  761,  768. 
Snails,  edible,  92. 
Snipe,  507. 

„      pudding,  448. 
Soles,  261. 


IKDBX. 


791 


Soles,  boikd,  36S. 

„      fillets  of,  263,  264. 


It 


fried,  261. 
M      Normande,  262. 
Sorrel,  558. 
Souch/  water,  260. 
S0UP8,  133. 

M      rich,  178. 
Soup,  apple,  167. 
„      arrowroot,  165. 
„     beer,  168. 
„     bisk,  188. 
„     bouillabaisse,  182. 
„     cabbage,  145. 
„     cherrj,  167. 
M     chestnut,  144. 
„      cook-a-leekie,  143. 
„     crawfish,  188. 
„     cucumber,  155,  156. 
„      eel,  183. 
n     cggt  poached,  173. 
H      elixir  of  life,  169-173. 

fimcy,  159. 

fish,  economical,  181. 
„     Flemish,  145. 
„     garbures,  159, 160. 
„     giblet,  161. 
„     grary,  149. 
„     green  pease,  154. 
„  „        „    without  g^een 

pease,  155. 
„     hare,  149. 
„     hotchrpotch,  142. 
„     julienne,  162. 
„     maigre,  175. 
„     mock-turtle,  147. 
„     mock  mock-turtle,  187. 
„      mouthful,  154. 

mulligatawny,  161. 

Nouilles,  160. 
„      oat-groats,  167. 
„     onion,  164. 


M 


ft 


ft 


n 


19 

n 
f* 


n 


t* 


» 


M 


M 


If 
II 
II 


II 


19 


19 


Soup,  ox-tail,  161. 
„      oyster,  190,  191. 
„     pease,  pur^,  150, 

„     inahurry,418. 
green,  154. 
„     without  gpreen 
pease,  155. 
„      poached  egg,  173. 
pot  an  feu,  186. 
potage,  bisque  d*6oreTis8es, 

188. 
potage  i  la  Jardiniere,  163. 
„       k  la  Monaco,  188. 
k  la  ProTen9ale,188. 
queen,  for  a,  158. 
k  la  reine,  158. 
pumpkin,  163. 
„     puree  i  la  Crecy,  156. 
„      rice  milk,  165,  166. 
„     rice  and  onion,  164. 
„     sago,  165. 
„     salmon,  192. 
„     shin-of-bee^  144. 
„     sorrel,  175. 
„      spring,  163. 
„      tapioca,  164. 
„     Termicelli,  169. 
„      white,  157, 158. 
„      wine,  168. 
Sourkrout,  with  apples,  528. 
„  in  a  hurry,  529. 

to  make,  528. 
pat£,  529. 
Soyer,  Alexis,  quoted,  541,  586, 

638. 
Spinach,  559. 

„        tart,  560. 
Sponge  baths,  utility  of,  741. 
Sprats,  broiled,  282. 

„  potted,  85. 
Spread  eagle,  484. 
Spring  soup,  163. 


n 

19 


792 


INDEX. 


Sprouts,  Bmssels,  531. 
Spurge,  poisonous,  109. 
Starch,  a  combustible,  13. 

„      conrerted  into  sugar,  749. 
Steaming^  49. 
Stewing,  49. 

Stonuush,  apathetic  state  of,  36. 
Stuffings,  74. 

Stuffing  for  roast  duck,  486. 
„       French,  for  roast  goose, 
491. 
Sturgeon,  the,  246. 

„         economical,  847. 
„         i  la  ProTen9ale,  947. 
„         roast,  847. 
Sugar,  its  use,  7. 
SwBETS      Aia>     Thibd-Coussb 

Dishes,  585. 
Syllabubs,  606. 

„  solid,  607. 

„  under  the  cow,  607. 

n  n  ft       without 

a  cow,  608. 
Syrup,  for  lemonade,  639. 

Tapioca  soup,  164. 
Tart,  cherry  (or  other),  638. 
„     cream,  683. 
„     rhubarb,  617. 
„      spinach,  560. 
Tea,  beef,  139,  690. 
„       „     Dr.  Dobell's,  691. 
„       „     Dr.  Lankester's,  691. 
„       „     Mrs,  Yf,  ii«  W^.  8,  690. 
„    linseed.      See     Tisane     of 
Aniseed,  660. 
Temperature  of  the  human  frame, 

11. 
Tench,  the,  234. 

M  boiled  plain,  235. 
„  cold  in  jelly,  236. 
„      fried,  237. 


» 


w 


» 


f» 


Tench,  i  la  poulette,  837. 
„      stewed,  336. 
„      with  sweet  herbs,  838. 
Thin,  to  grow,  83. 
Thinness,  remedies  for,  85. 
THiBD-Ck>uB8B  Dishes,  585. 
Thirst,  its  use  and  abuse,  634. 
Tipsy  cake,  614. 
Timneg,  653. 
Tisane  of  aniseed,  660. 

„        arnica-flowers,  659. 
borage,  659. 
burdock,  658. 
couch-grass,  659. 
hyssop,  659. 
mullein-flowers,  660. 
polygala,  658. 
prunes,  660. 
rice,  660. 
„        real,  &c.,  660. 
Tissot  **  On  the  Health  of  Men  of 

Letters,"  753. 
Toad  in  a  hole,  688. 
Toast-and-water,  637. 
Tomato,  as  a  Yegetable,  568. 

„        sauce,  119,  437. 
Travelling,  precautions  while,  763 

etseq. 
Treacle  posset,  650. 
Trifle,  614. 
Tripe,  355. 
Trout,  charr,  318. 
„      great  lake,  317. 
„       salmon,  317. 
Truffles,  456. 
Turbot,  the,  848. 

plain-boiled,  253. 
warmed  up,  356. 
Turkey  k  la  Guinoise,  453. 
boiled,  450. 

cock  k  la  bouTgeoise,  458. 
en  daube,  451. 


n 


» 


» 


n 


INDEX. 


793 


Turkey,  galantine,  A«  458  $  B,  454. 

„       roast,  454. 
Turnips,  glazed,  533. 
Turnip-tops,  524. 
Tjndall,  Dr.,  quoted,  39,  42,  71, 

637. 

Unitxrsal  Sauob,  180. 
Utensils,  56. 

Vbal,  330. 

„  blanquette  of,  393. 

„  breast  of,  389. 

„  broth,  140. 

„  cutlets,  without  bone,  383. 

„  „        broiled,  382. 

„  „        en  papillotes,  383. 

„  firicandeau  of,  398. 

„  fricasseed,  white,  393. 

„  galantine,  395. 

„  g^odiyeau  (forcemeat),  385. 

„  hashed,  388,  394. 

„  head,  hashed  white,  396. 

„  „     fried,  391. 

„  „      ii  la  tortue,  390, 

„  heart,  boiled,  384. 

„  „       roasted,  384. 

M  kidney,  387. 

„  knuckle  of,  390. 

„  lirer  and  bacon,  fried,  388. 

„  „     burgess-wise,  381. 

„  minced,  388. 

„  „      cak^s  of,  385. 

„  paupiettes,  394. 

„  pie,  392. 

„  roast,  386. 

„  „     fillet  and  shoulder, 

387. 

„  sweetbread,  rol-au-yent  of, 

332. 

„  sweetbread,  served   white, 
384. 


Veal  tendons,  398. 
Vbobtablbs,  510. 

„  their   use  in   diet, 

5l2«<s«9. 
Vegetable  kingdom,  the  kitchen 

of  the  animal  kingdom,  21. 
Vegetables,  natural  families  of, 
cultivated  in  European  gardens, 
517. 
Venison,  mock,  hashed,  377. 
Vermicelli  soup,  169. 
Vinegar  as  a  condiment,  31. 
„      huit,  640. 
M      raspberry,  A,  B,  640. 
„      whey,  651. 
Vol-au-yent>  329. 

offish,  331. 
„  fruit,  334. 
„  sweetbreads  and 
oysters,  332. 


w 


M 


Wastbbp-fish,  839. 

Water,  a  combination  of  oxygen 

and  hydrogen,  19, 
Water,  barley,  639. 

„       rice,  660. 

„       seltser,  641. 

„       souchy,  260. 

M       toast  and,  637. 
Water-cress  salad,  581. 
Weak  chest,  for  a,  677. 
Weevers,  the,  282. 
Whelks,  95. 
Whey,  lemon  or  vinegar,  651. 

„      white- wine,  651. 
White-currant  wine,  645. 
White  sauce,  105. 

„     soup,  157,  158. 
Whiting,  278. 
Wild  duck,  widgeon,  teal,  &c., 

489. 
Wine,  to  bottle,  671. 


794 

Wine,  ginger,  644. 
-      grape,  645. 

malt,  A,  B,  643,  644. 
orange,  646. 
parsnip,  646. 
raisin,  646. 
soup,  168. 


INDEX. 


n 
n 


Wine,  white-eorrant,  645. 
Woodcock  and  snipe,  507. 
Wbihklbs,  663. 

YoucaHinn  dif,  111. 
„  pudding,  628. 

ZiMMSSMASN,  quoted,  758. 


THE  END. 


LON'DON  : 
UTKT  A.ND  CO.,  PRDtTKRS,  ORBAT  XEW  8TnECT« 

rrrrxB  lanb,  jlo. 


London,  March^  187S. 


INCLUDING  UANY 


NEW  &  STANDARD  WORKS 

IN 

ENGINEERING,    ARCHITECTURE, 
AGRICULTURE,    MATHEMATICS,    MECHANICS, 

SCIENCE,   &c   &C. 

rVBUSHBD  BY 

CROSBY  LOGKWOOD  &  CO., 

7,   STATIONERS'-HALL  COURT,    LUDGATE   HILL,    E.C. 


ENGINEERING,  SURVEYING,  &C. 

f 

Numbers  New  Work  an  Water-Supply. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  TREATISE  on  the  WATER-SUPPLY 
of  CITIES  and  TOWNS.  By  William  Humber,  Assoc.  Inst 
C.E.,  and  M.  Inst.  M.E.  Author  of  "Cast  and  Wrought  Iron 
Bridge  Construction,"  &c  &c.  Imp.  4to.  Illustrated  with  50 
Double  Plates,  2  Single  Plates,  Coloured  Frontispiece,  and  upwards 
of  250  Woodcuts,  and  containing  400  pages  of  Text,  elegantly  and 
substantially  half-bound  in  morocco.     6/.  ts. 

List  c/CoHtenis:— 

I.  Historical  Sketch  of  some  of  the  means  that  have  been  adopted  for  the  Supply 
of  Water  to  Cities  and  Towns.—II.  Water  and  the  Foreign  Matter  usually  asso- 
ciated vrith  it. — III.  Rainfall  and  Evaporation. — IV.  Springs  and  the*  water- 
besuring  formations  of  various  districts.— V.  Measurement  ana  Estimation  of  the 
Flow  of  Water.— VI.  On  the  Selection  of  the  Source  of  Supply.— VII,  Wells.— 
VIII.  Reservoirs. — IX.  Tlie  Purification  of  Water. — X.  Pumps. — XI.  Pummng 
Machinery.— XII.  Conduits. — XIII.  Distribution  of  Water. — XIV.  Meters,  Ser- 
vice Pipes,  and  House  Fittings. — XV.  The  Law  and  Economy  of  Water  Works.— 


Specific  '       -  f 

Bideford,  Canterbury,  Dundee,  Halifax,  Lambeth,  Rotherham,  Dublin,  and  others. 

OPINIONS  OF  THE  PRESS. 

"  The  most  systematic  and  valuable  work  upon  water  supply  hitherto  produced  in 
English,  or  in  any  other  language." — Engineer  (first  notice). 

''^Mr.  number's  work  is  characterised  almost  throughout  by  an  exhaustiveness 
much  more  distinctive  of  French  and  German  than  of  English  technical  treatises."-^ 
£nein€er  (third  notice). 

''We  can  congratulate  Mr.  Humber  on  having  been  able  to  give  so  laige  an 
amoimt  of  information  on  a  subject  so  important  as  the  water  supply  of  cities  and 
toMms.  The  plates,  fifty  in  number,  are  mostly  drawings  of  executed  works,  and 
alone  would  have  commanded  the  attention  of  evtry  engineer  whose  fNactiw  may  U« 
in  thia  branch  of  the  profession."— ^»i/<^r. 


2       WORKS   IN  ENGINEERING,   SURVEYING,  ETC., 

Humbef^s  Modem  Engineering.     First 

A  RECORD  of  the  PROGRESS  of  MODERN  ENGINEER- 
ING,  1863.  Comprisnig  Cml,  Mechanical,  Maiine,  Hrdniiilic^ 
Railivaj,  Bridge,  and  other  Engineering  Works,  ftc  By  Wiuiam 
HuMBKK,  Assoc.  Inst  CE.,  &c.  Imp.  4tG^  with  36  Donble 
Plates,  drawn  to  a  large  scale,  and  Photc^naphic  Portiah  of  John 
Hawkshaw,  CE.,  F.R.S.,  &c.     3/.  y,  haSf  morocco. 

List  oj  the  Plaits, 

HAMB  AMD  DBSCBXTTIOM.  PLATBS.  NAMB  OT  BWOIMaaa. 

▼ictorim  SiatioQ  and  Roof— L.  B.ftS.  C  Rail  i  to  8  Mr.  It  Jacomb  Hood,  CE. 

SoDtfaport  Pier 9  and  10  Mr.  James  Brnnlcci,  C.B, 

VictcnirStatka  and  Roof— L.a&D.ftG.W. 

Raivavs xitoi5A  Mr.  John  Fowler,  CB. 

RoofoTCraiiorBeMasieHall 16  Mr.  WtlSaai  Humber,  C.& 

Bridoe  over  G.  N.  RailwaT t?  Mr.  Joseph  Cubitt.  CE. 

RooTof  StatxNi— Dntch  Rhenidi  Railvmy  ..  18  and  19  Mr.  Sadwdi,  CS. 
«r  the  Tbames- West  London  Ex- 

Raflway ao  to  24  Mr.  William  Baker,  C.K. 


Armnor  Plates      e5         Mr.  James  Chalmers,  CE. 

Suspension  Bridge,  TlMJBes 961099    Mr.  Peter  W.  Rnrknr.CE. 

The  Allen  Engine   30         Mr.  G.  T.  Porter,  M.E. 

Supension  Bndge,  Avoo 3x1031    Mr.  John  Hawkshaw,  CE. 

and  W.  H.  Bariow,  CE. 
Underground  Railway 34  to  316    Mr.  John  Fowler,  CE. 

With  copious  Descripti^  Letterpress,  Specifications,  &c. 


••' 


Handsomely  Hthognphed  and  printed.  It  wiD  find  fcvoor  with  many  who  denro 
to  presenre  in  a  permanent  form  copies  of  the  plans  and  specifications  prepared  for  dio 
guidance  of  the  contractors  for  many  important  engineenng  works.*— if  «^»Mtfr. 

Humbet^s  Modem  Engineering.    Second  Series. 

A  RECORD  of  the  PROGRESS  of  MODERN  ENGINEER. 
ING,  1S64 ;  with  Photographic  Portrait  of  Robert  Stephenson, 
CE.,  M.P.,  F.R.S.,  &c     3/.  y,  half  morocco. 

List  of  the  PtaUs, 

KAMa  AND  DBSCKirriOM.  PLATBS.  RAMB  OP  SmsmBBB. 

Birkenhead  Docks^  Low  Water  Basin  t  to  15  Mr.  G.  F.  Lyster.  CE. 

Charing  Cross  Station  Roof— C  C.  Railway.  x6  to  x8  Mr.  Hawkshaw,  CE. 

Digswell  Viaduct— Great  Northern  Raflway.         19  Mr.  T.  Cu&tt,  CE. 

Robbery  Wood  Viaduct— Great  N.  Railway.         ao  Mr.  J.  Cubitt,  CE. 

Iron  Permanent  Way aoc  —— 

Qydach  Viaduct— Merthyr,  Tredegar,  and 

Abq/aveuny  Raflway ai  Mr.  Gardner,  CE. 

Bbbw  Viaduct       ditto       ditto       ditto  99  Mr.  Gardner,  CE. 

Colle^  Wood  Viaduct— Cornwall  Railway . .         93  Mr.  Brunei. 

Dubhn  Winter  Palace  Roof 34  to  96  Messrs.  Ordish  ft  LeFenna* 

Bridge  over  the  Thames— L  C  &  D.  Railw.  97  to  39  Mr.  J.  Cubitt.  CE. 

Albeit  Harbour,  Greenock   33  to  3^  Messra.  BcU  ft  Miller. 

With  copious  Descriptive  Letterpress,  Specifications,  &c. 


"  A  risumti  of  aB  the  more  interesting  and  miportant  works  lately  completed  in  Great 
Britain :  and  oootaining,  as  it  does,  carefully  executed  drawingik  with  full  working 
details,  it  will  be  ftmnda  valuable  accessory  to  the  profession  at  urge.**— i?«v*"<v^* 

"  Mr.  Humbcr  has  done  the  profession  cood  and  true  aenrice,  by  the  fine  oollectkia 
of  examples  he  has  here  brougnt  before  the  prolciaion  and  the  public**— /'rw/And/ 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  ft  CO. 


Humberts  Modem  Engineering.     Third  Series. 

A  RECORD  of  the  PROGRESS  of  MODERN  ENGINEER- 
ING, 1865.  Imp.  4to,  with  40  Double  Plates,  drawn  to  a  large 
scale,  and  Photo  Portrait  of  J.  R.  M*Clean,  Esq.,  late  President 
of  the  Institution  of  Civil  Engineers.     5/.  ys.  half  morocco. 

List  ofPlaUs  and  Diagrams. 


MAIN  DRAINAGE,  METROPOLIS, 

North  Side. 

Plate  I.  Map  ihowing  Interception  of 
SewenL— a  and  3.  Miadle  Level  Sewer. 
Sewer  under  Regent's  Canal ;  and  Junc- 
tioa  with  Fleet  Ditcb.~4,  5,  and  6.  Out- 
&11  Sewer.  Bridge  over  Raver  Lea. 
Elevation  and  DetaiU.  ~  7.  Outfall 
Sewer.  _  Bridge  over  Marsh  I^e,  North 
Woolwich  Railway,  and  Bow  and  Barkuur 
Railway  Jonction.-'S,  9,  and  xo.  Outfall 
Sewer.  Bridge  over  Bow  and  Barking 
Railway.  Elevation  and  Details. — 
XX  smd  X2.  Outfall  Sewer.  Bridge  over 
East  London  Waterworks'  Feeder.  Ele- 
vation and  Details. --xp  and  14.  Outfall 
Sewer.  Reservoir.  Plan  and  Section. — 
IS.  Outiall  Sewer.  Tumbling  Bay  and 
Chidec— x6.  Outiall  Sewer.    Penstocks. 

South  Sidb. 


Pbtes  X7  and  x8.  Outiall  Sewer.    Ber 
mondsey  Branch.— X9,  ao,  ax,  and  aa. 

With  copious  Descriptive  Letterpress,  &c. 


MAIN  DRAINAGE,  METROPOLIS. 
atniiniued— 

Outfall  Sewer.      Reservoir  and  Outlet. 

Plan  and  Details.— 43.    Outfall  Sewer. 

Filth    Hoist— 34.    Sections  of  Sewers 
(North  and  South  SMes). 

THAMES  EMBANKMENT. 

Plate  as.  Sectun  of  River  Wall.— 
a6  and  37.  Steam-boat  Pier,  Westminster. 
Elevation  and  Details.  —  a8.  Landing 
Stairs  between  Charing  Cross  and  Water- 
loo Bridges. — 39  and  3a  York  Gate. 
Front  Elevation.  Side  Elevation  and 
Details.— 3X,  3a,  and  33.  Oveiflow  ayd 
Outlet  at  Savoy  Street  Sewer.  Details  ; 
and  Penstock.  —34,  35.  and  36.  Steam-boat 
Pier,  Waterloo  Bridge.  Elevation  and 
Dstails.— 37.  Junction  of  Sewers.  Plans 
and  Sections  — ^38.  Gullies.  Plans  and 
Sections.— 39.  Rolling  Stock.— 40.  Graniia 
and  Iron  Forts. 


Humberts  Modem  Engineering.   Fourth  Series. 

A  RECORD  of  the  PROGRESS  of  MODERN  ENGINEER- 
ING, 1866.  Imp.  4I0,  with  36  Double  Plates,  drawn  to  a  large 
scale,  and  Photographic  Portrait  of  John  Fowler,  Esq.,  President 
df  the  Institution  of  Civil  Engineers.    3/.  y.  half  morocco. 

List  of  the  Plates  and  Diagrams. 

MAMB  AND  DBSCXIPTION.  FLATB8.  MAMB  OF  BNGINBBB. 

Abbey  Mills  Pumping  Station,  Main  Drainage^ 

Metropolis s  to  4  Mr.  Basalgette,  C.E. 

Barrow  Docks 5  to  9  Messrs.  M^^ean&Stilknan, 

Manotiis  Viaduct,  Santiago  and  Valparaiso  (C.E. 

Railway ' xo,  xx  Mr.  W.  Loyd,  C.E. 

Adams'  Locomotive,  St.  Helen's  Canal  Railw.  xa,  13  Mr.  H.  Cross,  C.E. 

Cannon  Street  Station  Roof  14  to  x6  Mr.  J.  Hawkshaw,  C.  B. 

Road  Brid^  over  the  River  Moka 17,  x  8  Mr.  H.  Wakefield,  C  £. 

Telegraphic  Apparatus  for  Mesopotamia  ....  19  Mr.  Siemens.  C.  E. 

Viaduct  over  the  River  Wye,  Midland  Railw.  ao  to  2a  Mr.  W.  H.  Barlow,  C.E. 

St.  Germans  Viaduct,  Cornwall  Railway  ....  33,  a4  Mr.  Brunei.  C.E. 

Wroughc-Iron  Cylinder  for  Diving  Bell -     35  Mr  J.  Coode,  C.E. 

MillwallDocks 961031  Messrs.  J.  Fowler,  C.K.,  and 

William  Wilson,  C.E. 

Milroy's  Patent  Excavator    33  Mr.  Milroy,  C£. 

Metropolitan  Distria  Railway 33  to  38  ^Ir.  J.  Fowler,  and   Mr.  T. 

M.  Johnaon,  C.  £. 

Harbours,  Ports,  and  Breakwaters A  to  c 

IVith  Copious  Descriptive  Letterpress^  Spicifieations,  *Srv. 


4       WORKS  IN  ENGINEERING,  SURVEYING,  ETC, 

Humberts  Great  Work  on  Bridge  Construction. 

A  COMPLETE  and  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  on  CAST  and 

WROUGHT-IRON    BRIDGE    CONSTRUCTION,   including 

Iron  Foundations.    In  Three  Parts — ^llieoretica].  Practical,  an3 

Descriptive.  Bjr  William  Humbek,  Assoc  Inst  C E.,  and  M.  Inst 

M.E.    Third  Edition,  revised  and  much  improved,  with  115  Double 

Plates  (20  of  which  now  first  appear  in  this  edition),  and  numerous 

additions  to  the  Text    In  2  vols.  imp.  4to,  6/.  i6t,  6d,  half-bound 

in  morocco. 

*' A  very  valuable  contributioa  to  the  standard  ktenture  of  civil  enKineeriiii^.  la 
addition  to  elevations,  plans,  and  sections,  larg^  scale  details  are  Riven.  nHitdi  very 
much  enhance  the  instructive  worth  of  these  illustrations.  No  engineer  wcmld  vu- 
linidy  be  without  so  valuable  a  fund  of  information.  "•--Cfiw/^fl(fWMrr  omi/  ^rcA^^^ 

"  Mr.  Humberts  stately  Volumes  lately  issued— in  which  the  most  important  bridges 
erected  during  the  last  five  years,  under  the  direction  of  our  most  eminent  engineer^ 
are  drawn  and  specified  in  great  detail"— J?«(fmMrr. 

"  A  book — and  particularly  a  large  and  cosUy  treatise  like  Mr.  Humber's — ^which 
has  reached  its  third  edition  may  certainly  be  said  to  have  established  its  own 
reputation.  "—Enginttring, 

Strains  y  Formula  &  Diagrams  for  Calculation  of. 

A  HANDY  BOOK  for  the  CALCULATION  of  STRAINS 
in  GIRDERS  and  SIMILAR  STRUCTURES,  and  their 
STRENGTH ;  consisting  of  Formulae  and  Corresponding  Diagrams, 
with  numerous  Details  for  Practical  Application,  &c.  By  William 
HuMBKR,  Assoc.  Inst  C.E.,  &c  Second  Edition.  Fcap.  8vo, 
with  nearly  100  Woodcuts  and  3  Plates,  7x.  td.  cloth. 

'*The  arrangement  of  the  matter  in  this  little  volume  is  as  convenient  as  It  weO 
could  be.  ...  .  The  system  of  employing  diagrams  as  a  substitute  for  oomplex 
computations  is  one  justly  coming  into  ^preat  favour,  and  in  that  respect  Mr.  Humber's 
volume  is  fully  up  to  the  times."— ^«tf«M«rH^f. 

"The  fiannulm  are  neatly  expressed,  and  the  diagrams  good."— w4M#m«im«. 

*'  Mr.  Humber  has  rendered  a  great  service  to  the  architect  and  engineer  by  pro- 
ducing a  work  especially  treating  on  the  methods  of  delineating  the  strains  on  iron 
beams,  roofs,  ana  bridges  by  means  of  diagrams.  "—^wiVUIrr. 

Barlow  on  the  Strength  of  Materials^  enlarged. 

A  TREATISE  ON  THE  STRENGTH  OF  MATERIALS, 

with  Rules  for  application  in  Architecture,  the  Construction  of 

Suspension  Bridges,  Railways,   &c  ;   and  an  Appendix  on  the 

Power  of  Locomotive  Engines,  and  the  effect  of  Inclined  Planes 

and  Gradients.     By  Peter  Barlow,  F.R.S.   A  New  Edition, 

revised  by  his  Sons,  P.  W.  Barlow,  F.R.S.,  and  W.  H.  Barlow, 

F.R.S.,  to  which  are  added  Experiments  by  Hodgkinson,  Fair- 

BAIRN,  and  KiRKALDY  ;  an  Essay  (with  Illustrations)  on  the  effect 

produced  by  passing  Weights  over  Elastic  Bars,  by  the  Rev. 

Robert  Willis,  M.A,  F.R.S.    And  Formulae  for  Calculating 

Girders,  &c.    The  whole  arranged  and  edited  bv  W.  Humber, 

Assoc.  Inst  C.E.,  Author  of  *'  A  Complete  and  Practical  Treatise 

on  Cast  and  Wrought-Iron  Bridge  Construction,"  &c.     8vo,  400 

pp.,  witii  19  large  Plates,  and  numerous  woodcuts,  i&r.  doth. 

*'  Tlie  book  is  undoubtedly  worthy  of  the  highest  oommendation.*'-~-JlfM0M'7'M(rMi/. 
"The  best  book  on  t&e  subject  which  has  yet  appeared.    ....    We  know  of 
BO  work  that  so  completdy  fulfils  its  nasAoa,  —BngUtk  Mtckanie, 
"  The  standard  treatise  upon  this  particular  subject.*— J?«tfiiM«r. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.  S 

Tramways  and  Tram-Traffic, 

TRAMWAYS:  their  CONSTRUCTION  and  WORKING. 
Containing  a  Comprehensive  History  of  the  System ;  an  exhaus« 
tive  Analysis  of  the  Various  Modes  of  Traction,  including  Horse 
Power,  Steam,  Heated  Water,  and  Compressed  Air ;  a  Description 
of  the  varieties  of  Rolling  Stock  ;  and  ample  Details  of  Cost  and 
Working  Expenses,  with  Special  reference  to  the  Tramways  of  the 
United  Kingdom.  By  D.  Kinnear  Clark,  M.  I.  C.  E.,  Author 
of  *  Railway  Machinery,'  &c.,  in  one  vol.  8vo,  with  numerous  illus- 
trations ana  thirteen  folding  plates.  \^Nearly  ready. 

Iron  and  Steel. 

'IRON  AND  STEEL':  a  Work  for  the  Forge,  Foundry, 
Factory,  and  Office.  Containing  Ready,  Useful,  and  Trustworthy 
Information  for  Ironmasters  and  their  Stocktakers ;  Managers  of 
Bar,  Rail,  Plate,  and  Sheet  Rolling  Mills ;  Iron  and  Metal 
Founders ;  Iron  Ship  and  Bridge  Builders ;  Mechanical,  Mining, 
and  Consulting  Engineers ;  Architects,  Contractors,  Builders,  and 
Professional  Draughtsmen.  By  Charles  Hoarb,  Author  of 
■The  Slide  Rule,'  &c.  Eighth  Edition.  Revised  throughout  and 
considerably  enlai^^ed.  With  folding  Scales  of  ''Foreign  Mea- 
sures compared  with  the  English  Foot,"  and  "fixed  Scales  of 
Squares,  Cubes,  and  Roots,  Areas,  Decimal  Equivalents,  &c" 
Oblong,  32mo,  leather  elastic-band,  df. 

"  We  cordially  recommend  this  book  to  those  enf:aced  in  considering  the  details 

of  all  kinds  of  iron  and  steel  works It  has  been  compiled  with  care  and 

accuracy.  ....  Many  useful  rules  and  hints  are  given  for  lessening  die 
amount  of  aridimetical  labour  which  is  always  more  or  less  necesHury  in  arranging 
iron  and  sted  work  of  all  kinds,  and  a  great  quantity  of  useful  tables  for  preparing 
irtfMnntrff  of  weights,  dimensions,  strengths  of  structures,  costs  of  work,  &c.,  will  bo 
found  in  Mr.  Hoare's  book.— ^nvtf/  Scienct, 

WeaUs  Engineer's  Pocket-Book, 

THE  ENGINEER'S,  ARCHITECT'S,  and  CONTRACTOR'S 
POCKET-BOOK  (Lockwood  &  Co.'s;  formerly  Weale's). 
Published  Annually.  In  roan  tuck,  gilt  edges,  with  lo  Copper- 
Plates  and  nnmerousr'Woodcuts.    6r. 

'*  A  vast  amount  of  really  valuable  matter  condensed  into  the  small  dimen- 
dons  of  a  book  which  is,  in  reality,  what  it  professes  to  be— a  pocke^book.    .    .    . 
We  cordially  recommend  the  book. — Colliery  Guardian,, 

**  It  contains  a  large  amount  of  information  peculiarly  valuable  to  those  for  whoso 
use  it  is  compiled.  We  cordially  commend  it  to  the  engineering  and  architectural 
professions  generally."— JlfrnMif  JourtuU, 

Iron  Bridges^  Girder s^  Roofs,  &c. 

A  TREATISE  on  the  APPLICATION  of  IRON  to  the  CON- 
STRUCTION of  BRIDGES,  GIRDERS,  ROOFS,  and  OTHER 
WORKS  ;  showing  the  Principles  upon  which  such  Structures  are 
Designed,  and  their  Practical  Application.  Especially  arranged  for 
the  use  of  Students  and  Practical  Mechanics,  all  Mathematical  For- 
mulae and  Symbols  being  excluded.  By  Francis  Campin,  C.E. 
Second  Edition  revised  and  corrected.  With  numerous  Diagrams. 
i2mo,  cloth  boards,  y. 

"  Invaluable  to  those  who  have  not  been  educated  in  mathematics."— C^ZS>»y 
Cnofdian, 
"  Remarkably  aocuiate  and  well  written."— ifrMMM. 


9        WORKS  IN  ENGINEERING,   SURVEYING,  ETC. 

Pioneer  Engineering. 

PIONEER  ENGINEERING.  A  Treatise  on  the  Engineering 
Operations  connected  with  the  Settlement  of  Waste  Lands  in  New 
Countries.  By  Edward  Dobson,  Assoc.  Inst.  C.E.,  Author  of 
"The  Art  of  Building/'  &c.  With  numerous  Plates  and  Wood 
Engravings.     Crown  ovo,  lox.  6</.,  cloth.  \jftisi  publishedn 

"  A  most  uieful  handbook  to  engineering  pioneers." — Iron. 

"  The  author's  experience  has  been  turned  to  good  account,  and  the  book  is  likely 
to  be  of  considerable  service  to  pioneer  tsxp'^ttx^.**— Building  News. 

New  Iron  Trades'  Companion. 

THE  IRON  AND  METAL  TRADES'  COMPANION: 
Being  a  Calculator  containing  a  Series  of  Tables  upon  a  new  and 
comprehensive  plan  for,  expeditiously  ascertaining  the  value  of  any 
goods  bought  or  sold  by  weight,  from  15.  per  cwt.  to  Ii2j.  per 
cwt.,  and  from  one  farthing  per  pound  to  one  shilling  per  pound. 
Each  Table  extends  from  one  pound  to  loo  tons ;  to  which  are 
appended  Rules  on  Decimals,  Square  and  Cube  Root,  Mensuration 
ot  Superficies  and  Solids,  &c. ;  also  Tables  of  Weights  of  Materials, 
and  other  Useful  Memoranda.  By  Thomas  Downie.  Strongly 
bound  in  leather,  396  pp.,  9^. ' 
"  A  most  useful  set  of  tables,  and  will  supply  a  want,  for  nothing  like  them  before 

txaXn^J*  ^Building  News. 
**  Will  save  the  possessor  the  trouble  of  making  numerous  intricate  calculations. 

AIihouRh  specially  adapted  to  the  iron  and  metal  trades,  the  tables  contained  in  this 

bandy  little  companion  will  be  found  useful  in  every  other  business  in  which  mcr- 

cbandise  is  bought  and  sold  by  weight."— ^<i//fe«a^  Neivs, 

Sanitary  Work. 

SANITARY  WORK  IN  THE  SMALLER  TOWNS  AND 
IN  VILLAGES.  Comprising : — i.  Some  of  the  more  Common 
Forms  of  Nuisance  and  their  Remedies  ;  2.  Drainage ;  3.  Water 
Supply.  A  useful  book  for  Members  of  Local  Boards  and  Rural 
Sanitary  Authorities,  Health  Officers,  Engineers,  Surveyors, 
Builders,  and  Contractors.  By  Charles  Slagg,  Assoc.  Inst  C.E. 
Crown  8vo,  5j.  ,  cloth. 
*'  Mr.  Slagg  has  brought  together  much  valuable  information,  and  has  a  happy 

lucidity  of  expression ;  and  he  has  been  industrious  in  collecting  data." — Atkeruntm. 
"This  is  a  very  useful  book,  and  may  be  safely  recommended The  author, 

Mr.  Charles  Slagg,  has  had  practical  experience  in  the  works  of  which  he  treats. 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  work  required  to  oe  done  in  the  smaller  towns  and  villages, 

and  this  little  volume  will  help  those  who  are  willing  to  do  it." — Builder,. 

Sanitary  Engineering. 

WHOLESOME  HOUSES:  being  an  exposition  of  the  Banner 
System  of  Sanitation.  By  Edward  Gregson  Banner,  C.E.  New 
and  enlarged  edition  (25th  thousand),  illustrated  with  numerous 
Wood  Engravings.  Crown  8vo,  sewed  6(/.,  cloth  u.  [yustpublisM, 

Steam  Engine. 

STEAM  AND  THE  STEAM  ENGINE,  Stationary  and  Port- 
able, an  Elementary  Treatise  on.     Being  an  Extension  of  Mr. 
John  Sewell's  Treatise  on  Steam.    By   D.   Kinnear  Clark, 
C.E.,  M.I.C.E.,  Author  of  *' Railway  Locomotives,"  &c     With 
Illustrations.     i2mo,  4^.,  cloth. 
"Every  essential  part  of  the  subject  is  treated  of  competently,  and  in  a  popular 
style.''>-/f)m. 


PUBUSHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.    7 

Strains. 

THE  STRAINS  ON  STRUCTURES  OF  IRONWORK; 
with  Pnctical  Remarks  on  Iron  Construction.  By  F.  W.  Shsilds, 
M.  Inst,  C.E.  Second  Edition,  with  5  plates.  Rojral  8vo^  5^.  cloth. 

Goimim  .—Introductory  Remarks ;  Beams  Loaded  at  Centre  {  Beams  Loaded  at 
unequal  distances  between  supports ;  Beams  uniformly  Loaded ;  Girders  with  triangu- 
lar bradnff  Loaded  at  centre ;  Ditto,  Loaded  at  unequal  distances  between  supports ; 
Ditto,  uniformly  Loaded;  Calculation  of  the  Strains  on  Girders  with  triangular 
Basings ;  Omtifevezs ;  Contfaiuous  Girders :  Lattice  Girders ;  Girders  widi  Verdcal 
Struts  and  Diagonal  Ties ;  Calculation  of  the  Strains  <m  Ditto ;  Bow  and  String 
Girders ;  Girders  of  a  form  not  belonging  to  any  rojular  figure ;  Plate  Girders  ;  Ap- 
portionments of  Material  to  Strain ;  Comparison  01  different  Girders ;  Proportion  of 
Loigthto  Depth  of  Girders ;  Character  ofthe  Work ;  Iron  Roofik 

Construction  of  Iron  Beams^  Pillars^  &c. 

IRON  AND  HEAT,  Exhibiting  the  Principles  concerned  hi  the 
Construction  of  Iron  Beams,  Pilbrs,  and  Bridge  Girders,  and  the 
Action  of  Heat  in  the  Smelting  Furnace.  By  James  Armour, 
C.E.    Woodcuts,  i2mo,  cloth  boards,  3J.  6d, ;  cloth  limp,  is.  6d, 

"  A  very  useful  and  thoroughly  practical  little  volume,  in  erery  way  desenring  of 
circulation  amongst  working  men.**— Jl/«wi>^  ycumoL 

"No  ironworker  who  wishes  to  acquaint  himself  with  the  principles  of  his  own 
trade  can  afford  to  be  without  xt,"-^outk  Durham  Mercury, 

Power  in  Motion. 

POWER  IN  MOTION :  Hoise  Power,  Motion,  Tootiied  Wheel 

Gearing,  Long  and  Short  Driving  Bands,  Angular  Forces,  &c. 

By  James  Armour,  CE.     With  73  Diagrams.      i2mo,  doth 

boards,  ^x.  6d. 
It 


Numerous  illustrations  enable  the^thor  to  convey  his  meaning  as  explicitly  as 

itic  andpract' 
ledge  imparted  cannot  well  be  over  eii&aiaJUed,**-^NewautU  Wtekly  Chronicle. 


it  is  perhaps  possible  to  be  conveyed.    The  value  of  the  theoretic  an  ^practical  know- 


Metallurgy  of  Iron. 

A  TREATISE  ON  THE  METALLURGY  OF  IRON :  con- 
taining Outiines  of  the  History  of  Iron  Manufacture,  Methods  of 
Assay,  and  Analyses  of  Iron  Ores,  Processes  of  Manufacture  of 
Iron  and  Steel,  &c.  By  H.  Bauerman,  F.G.S.,  Associate  ofthe 
Royal  School  of  Mines.  With  numerous  Illustrations.  Fourth 
Edition,  revised  and  much  enlarged.      i2mo,  doth  boards,  5j.  td. 

"  Carefully  written,  it  has  the  merit  of  brevity  and  conciseness,  as  to  less  important 
pointSt  while  all  material  matters  are  very  fully  and  thoroughly  entered  into."^ 
Standard. 

Trigonometrical  Surveying. 

AN  OUTLINE  OF  THE  METHOD  OF  CONDUCTING  A 
TRIGONOMETRICAL  SURVEY,  for  the  Formation  of  Geo- 
graphical  and  Topographical  Maps  and  Plans,  Military  Reoon* 
naissance.  Levelling,  &c.,  with  the  most  useful  Problems  iu  Geodesy 
and  Practical  Astronomy,  and  Formulae  and  Tables  for  Facilitating 
their  Calculation.  By  Lieut-General  Fromb,  R.E.,  late  In* 
spector-General  of  Fortifications,  &c.  Fourth  Edition,  Enlarged* 
thoroughly  Revised,  and  pardy  Re-written.  By  Captain  Charles 
Warren,  R;E.,  F.G.S.  With  19  Plates  and  115  Woodcuts, 
royal  8vo,  i6i-.  doth. 


8       WORKS  IN  £NGIN££RIKG,  SURVEYING,  ETC., 

Practical  Tunnelling. 

PRACTICAL  TUNNELLING:  Explaining  tn  detail  the  Setting 
out  of  the  Works,  Shaft-sinking  and  Heading-Driving,  Ranging 
the  Lines  and  Levelling  under  Ground,  Sub>£xcavatin?,  Timbenng, 
and  the  Construction  of  the  Brickwork  of  Tunnels  with  the  amount 
of  labour  required  for,  and  the  Cost  of,  the  various  portions  of  the 
work.  By  Frederick  Walter  Simms,  M.  Inst.  C.E.,  author 
of  "A  Treatise  on  Levelling."  Third  Edition,  Revised  and  Ex- 
tended, with  additional  chapters  illustrating  the  Recent  Practice  of 
Tunnelling  as  exemplified  by  the  St  GoUiard,  Mont  Cenis,  and 
other  modem  works,  by  D.  Kinnear  Clark,  M.  Inst.  C.E. 
Imp.  8vo,  with  21  Folding  Plates  and  numerous  Wood  En- 
gravings, 30 J.,  cloth. 

"  It  is  the  only  practical  treatise  on  the  great  art  of  tunnelling.  Mr.  Clark's  work 
brings  the  exigencies  of  tunnel  entetiuise  up  to  our  own  time.  The  great  length  of 
modem  tunnels  has  led  to  a  new  difficulty  in  the  art,  which  the  last  generation  was 
ignorant  of,  namely,  the  difficulty  of  ventilation.  In  Mr.  Clark's  suimTement  we  find 
tnis  branch  of  the  subject  has  been  fully  considered.  Mr.  Claik's  aaditlonal  chapters 
on  the  Mont  Cenis  and  St.  Gothard  Tunnels  contain  minute  and  valuable  experiences 
and  data  relating  to  the  method  of  excavation  by  compressed  air,  the  heading 
operations,  rock-boring  machine^,  process  of  enlanement.  ventilation  in  course  m 
construction  by  compressed  air,  labour  and  cost,  %ic  —BKUding  News, 

"  The  estimation  m  which  Mr.  Simms'  book  on  tunnelling  has  been  held  for  over 
thirty  years  cannot  be  more  truly  expressed  than  in  the  woras  of  the  late  Professor 
Ranicine  : — '  The  best  source  of  information  on  the  subject  of  tunnels  is  Mr.  F.  W. 
Simms'  work  on  "  Practical  Tunnelling."  *-^TMe  Architect. 

Levelling. 

A  TREATISE  on  the  PRINCIPLES  and  PRACTICE  of 
LEVELLING ;  showing  its  Application  to  Purposes  of  Railway 
and  Civil  Engineering,  in  the  Construction  of  Roads ;  with  Mr* 
Telford's  Rules  for  the  same.  By  Frederick  W.  Simms, 
F.G.S.,  M.  Inst  C.E.  Sixth  Edition,  very  carefully  revised,  with 
the  addition  of  Mr.  Law's  Practical  Examples  for  Setting  oat 
Railway  Curves,  and  Mr.  Trautwinb's  Fidd  Practice  of  Laving 
out  Circular  Curves.  With  7  Plates  and  numerous  Woodcuts,  ovo, 
&.  6d.  doth.  %*  Trautwine  on  Curves,  separate,  51. 

"  One  of  the  most  important  text-books  for  the  general  surveyor,  and  diere  b 
scarcely  a  question  connected  with  levtUing  for  which  a  solution  would  be  sought  but 
that  would  be  satisfactorily  answered  by  consulting  Uie  volume;''— if mmv'  Jntrmti. 

**  The  text-book  on  levoling  in  most  ni  our  engineering  schools  and  cmleges."— 
Bnginetr, 

The  High'Pressure  Steam  Engine. 

THE  HIGH-PRESSURE  STEAM  ENGINE ;  an  Exposition 
of  its  Comparative  Merits,  and  an  Essay  towards  an  Improved 
System  of  Construction,  adapted  espedaUy  to  secure  Safety  and 
Economy.  By  Dr.  Ernst  Alban,  Practical  Machine  Maker, 
Pku,  Mecklenberg.  Translated  from  the  German,  with  Notes,  by 
Dr.  Pole,  F.R.S.,  M.  Inst  C.E.,  &c.  &c.  With  28  fine  Plates, 
8vo,  i6j.  6d.  doA. 

"  A  work  like  this,  which  goes  thoroughljr  into  the  examination  of  the  high-pressurs 
engine,  llhe  boiler,  and  its  appendages,  Sc.^  is  exceedindy  utdtil,  and  deserves  a  plaoo 
in  every  scientific  Utvary."— tS/mM  Ski^mg  Ckrmk^. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.  9 

Reynolds'  Locomotive-Engine  Driving. 

LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE  DRIVING ;  a  Practical  Manual  for 

Engmeeis    in   chaige    of   Locomotive    Engines.     By  Michael 

Reynolds,   Inspector,    Locomotive  and  Carriage  beportment, 

London,  Brighton,  and  South  Coast  Railway.     Second  Edition. 

With  Illustrations.    Crown  8vo,  4J.  6«/.,  cloth.        XJusi published. 

"  Mr.  Reynolds  has  supplied  a  want,  and  has  supplied  it  vrell.  We  can  confidently 

recommend  the  book  not  only  to  the  practical  driver,  but  to  every  one  who  taJces  an 

interest  in  the  performance  of  locomotive  engines." — The  Engineer. 

**  The  work  is  as  novel  as  it  is  useful,  and  if  drivers  and  nremen  will  but  take  as 
much  pains  in  reading  it  as  the  author  has  in  writing  it,  there  can  be  no  question  as 
to  the  benefit  they  willderive."— ^m^/mA  Mechanic. 

"  Mr.  Reynolds  has  opened  a  new  chapter  in  the  literature  of  the  day.  This 
admirable  practical  treatise,  of  the  practical  utility  of  which  we  have  to  speak  in 
terms  of  warm  commendation." — Athett^nm. 

Hydraulics. 

HYDRAULIC  TABLES,  CO-EFFICIENTS,  and  FORMULiE 
for  finding  the  Dischaige  of  Water  from  Orifices,  Notches,  Weirs, 
Pipes,  and  Riveis.  With  New  Formulae,  Tables,  and  General 
Information  onRain-fJUl,  Catchment-Basins,  Drainage,  Sewerage, 
Water  Supply  for  Towns  and  Mill  Power.  By  John  Neville, 
Civil  Engineer,  M.R.I.A.  Third  Edition,  carefully  revised,  with 
considerable  Additions.  Numerous  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo,  14;.  cloth. 


tt 


Undoubtedly  an  exceedinji;ly  useful  and  elaborate  compilation." — Irtm. 
Alike  valuable  to  students  and  engineers  in  practice ." — Mining  journal. 


Strength  of  Cast  Iron,  &c. 

A  PRACTICAL  ESSAY  on  the  STRENGTH  of  CAST  IRON 
and  OTHER  METALS.  By  the  late  Thomas  Tredgold,  Mem. 
Inst  C.E.,  Author  of  *'  Elementary  Principles  of  Carpentry,*'  &c. 
Fifth  Edition,  Edited  by  Eaton  Hodgkinson,  F.R.S.  ;  to 
which  are  added  EXPERIMENTAL  RESEARCHES  on  the 
STRENGTH  and  OTHER  PROPERTIES  of  CAST  IRON. 
By  the  Editor.  The  whole  Illustrated  with  9  Engravings  and 
numerous  Woodcuts.  8vo,  12s,  cloth. 
%•  Hodgkinson  on  Cast  Iron,  separately.    Price  6s»  do^j^^ 

Steam  Boilers. 

A  TREATISE  ON  STEAM  BOILERS  :  their  Strength,  Con- 
struction, and  Economical  Working.  By  R.  Wilson,  A.I.C.E. 
Fourth  Edition.     i2mo,  dr.,  doth. 

"  The  best  work  on  boilers  which  has  come  under  our  notice." — Engineerings 
"  The  best  treatise  that  has  ever  been  published  on  steam  boilers." — Eftgineer. 

Tables  of  Curves. 

TABLES  OF  TANGENTIAL  ANGLES  and  MULTIPLES 
for  setting  out  Curves  from  5  to  200  Radius.  By  Alexander 
Beazblky,  M.  Inst.  C.E.  Printed  on  48  Cards,  and  sold  in  a 
doth  box,  waistcoat-pocket  size,  3/.  6d, 

"  Each  table  is  printed  on  a  small  card,  which,  being  placed  on  the  theodolite,  leases 
the  hands  free  to  manipulate  die  instrumenl'~«o  «naU  advantage  as  regards  the  rapidity 
of  work.  They  are  clearly  printed,  and  oompacdy  fitted  into  a  small  case  for  the 
pocket— «n  arrangement  tliat  will  recommend  tnem  to  all  mactical  men." — Engineer, 

"  Very  handy :  a  man  may  know  that  all  his  day's  work  must  faU  on  two  of  these 
cuds,  waich  he  puts  into  his  own  card-case,  and  leaves  the  rest  bdiiiid."— u4  thgnenem. 


10        WORKS  IN  ENGINEERING,  SURVEYING,  ETC., 

Slate  and  Slate  Qtcarrying. 

A  TREATISE  ON  SLATE  AND  SLATE  QUARRYING, 

Scientific,  Practical,  and  Commercial.    By  D.  C.  Davies,  F.G.S., 

Nf  ining  Engineer,  &c.     With  numerous  Illustrations  and  Folding 

Plates.     Crown  8vo,  6f.,  cloth.  [Just pubHshea, 

"A  useful  and  practical  hand-book  on  an  important  industry."— JfiiwvorrrM!^. 
"A  useful  embodiment  of  practical  information  derived  from  original  souroes,  com- 
bined with  a  digtst  of  every  thing  that  has  alx«ady  appeared  likely  to  be  of  interest." 
— Bui/ding:  News. 

"  There  is  no  other  book  which  contains  so  much  information  concerning  the  pro- 
cedure observed  in  taking  quarries,  the  processes  employed  in  wovicing  uiem,  aad 
such  full  statistics  of  the  present  and  past  position  of  the  great  slate  trade  of 
Wales."— 7'-**^nrAi/«/. 

Earthwork. 

EARTHWORK  TABLES,  showing  the  Contents  in  Cubic  Yards 
of  Embankments,  Cuttings,  &c.,  of  Heights  or  Depths  up  to  an 
average  of  80  feet    By  Joseph  Broaddent,  C.  E.,  and  Francis 
Campin,  C.E.     Cr.  8vo,  oblong,  51.  cloth. 
"The  way  in  which  accuracy  is  attained,  by  a  simple  divisi<m  of  each  cross 
section  into  three  elements,  two  of  which  are  constant  and  one  variable,  is  in- 
genious."—i4  tkftueum. 

"  Cannot  fail  to  come  into  general  MstJ^-^Mimttg  youmai. 

Surveying  (Land  and  Marine). 

LAND  AND  MARINE  SURVEYING,  in  Reference  to  the 
Preparation  of  Plans  for  RoerIs  and  Railways,  Canals,  Riven, 
Towns'  Water  Supplies,  Docks  and  Harbours ;  with  Description 
and  Use  of  Surveying  Instruments.  By  W.  Davis  Haskoll,  C.  £. 
8vo,  I2s.  6d.  doth,  with  14  folding  Plates,  and  numerous  Woodcuts. 

"A  most  useful  and  well  arranged  book  for  the  aid  of  a  student" — Builder, 
*'  Cannot  fail  to  prove  of  the  utmust  practical  utility,  and  may  be  safely  recom- 
mended to  all  students  who  aspire  to  become  clean  and  expert  surveyorB.''--'lfnMl*^ 

Engineering  Fieldwork. 

THE  PRACTICE  OF  ENGINEERING  FIELDWORK, 
applied  to  Land  and  Hydraulic,  Hydrographic,  and  Submarine 
Surveying  and  Levelling.  Second  Edition,  revised,  with  consider- 
able additions,  and  a  Supplementary  Volume  on  WATER- 
WORKS,  SEWERS,  SEWAGE,  and  IRRIGATION.  By  W. 
Davis  Haskoll,  C.E.  Numerous  folding  Plates.  Demy  8vo,  % 
vols,  in  one,  cloth  boards,  l/.  is,  (publishea  at  2/.  41.) 

Minings  Surveying  and  Valuing. 

THE  MINERAL  SURVEYOR  AND  VALUER'S  COM- 
PLETE GUIDE,  comprising  a  Treatise  on  Improved  Mining 
Surveying,  with  new  Traverse  Tables ;  and  Descriptions  of  Im- 
proved Instruments  ;  also  an  Exposition  of  the  Correct  Principles 
of  Laying  out  and  Valuing  Home  and  Foreign  Iron  and  Coal 
Mineral  Properties.  By  Wiluam  Lintern,  Mining  and  Civil 
Engineer.  With  four  Plates  of  Diagrams,  Plans,  &c.,  i2mo,4x.,cloth. 

"Contains  much  valuable  information  ^ven  in  a  small  compass,  and  whidi,  as  fiur 
as  we  have  tested  it,  is  thonmghly  trustworthy."— /fVM  amd  Ciai  Tradst  Review. 

%*  The  above,  bound  with  Thoman's  Tables,  (See  page  22), 
Price  7 J.  6^.,  cloth. 


'A  venr  valuable  work,  which  will  tend  iqateriany  to  improve  our  mining  litem' 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.         ii 

Fire  Engineering. 

FIRES,  FIRE-ENGINES,  AND  FIRE  BRIGADES.  With 
a  History  of  Fire-Engines,  their  Construction,  Use,  and  Manage- 
ment ;  Remarks  on  Fire- Proof  Buildings,  and  the  Preservation  of 
Life  from  Fire;  Statistics  of  the  Fire  Appliances  in  English 
Towns  ;  Foreign  Fire  Systems ;  Hints  on  Fire  Brigades,  &c.,  && 
By  Charles  F.  T.  Young,  C.E.  With  numerous  Illustrations, 
handsomely  printed,  544  pp.,  demy  8vo,  i/.  4r.  doth. 
"  We  can  most  heartily  commend  this  book.  ....  It  is  really  the  only  Enflisb 
work  we  now  have  upon  the  subject." — EMgriuern^g. 

'*  We  strongly  recommend  the  book  to  the  notice  of  all  who  are  in  any  way  in- 
terested in  fires,  fire-engines,  or  fire-brigades.** — Meckanici  MagoMtfU, 

Manual  of  Mining  Tools. 

MINING  TOOLS.     For  the  use  of  Mine  Managers,  Agents, 

Mining  Students,  &c.    By  William  Morgans,  Lecturer  onPrac- 

tical  Mining  at  the  Bristol  School  of  Mines.     Volume  of  Text 

i2mo.    Wim  an  Atlas  of  Plates,  containing  235  Illustrations.    4ta 

Together,  9^.  cloth  boards. 

"  Students  in  the  Science  of  Mining,  and  not  only  they,  but  subordinate  officials  in 

mines,  and  even  Overmen,  Captains,  Managers,  and  viewers  may  nin  practical 

knowledge  and  useful  hints  by  the  study  of  Mr.  Morgana'  ManttJU." — CoUitry 

GtutrtUan. 
« 

ture." — Mining  ymtmal. 

Common  Sense  for  Gas- Users. 

COMMON  SENSE  FOR  GAS-USERS:  a  Catechism  of  Gas- 
Lighting  for  Householders,  GasBtters,  Millowners,  Architects, 
Engineers,  &c.,  &c.  By  Robert  Wilson,  C.E,,  Author  of  "A 
Treatise  on  Steam  Boilers."  Second  Edition.  Crown  8vo,  sewed, 
with  Folding  Plates  and  Wood  Engravhigs,  2s,  6d,     \yust  publisM. 

Gas  and  Gasworks. 

A  TREATISE  on  GASWORKS  and  the  PRACTICE  of 
MANUFACTURING  and  DISTRIBUTING  COAL  GAS. 
By  Samuel  Hughes,  C.E.  Fourth  Edition,  revised  by  W. 
Richards,  C.E.    With  68  Woodcuts,  i2mo,  4;.,  cloth  boards. 

Waterworks  for  Cities  and  Towns. 

WATERWORKS  for  the  SUPPLY  of  CITIES  and  TOWNS, 

with  a  Description  of  the  Principal  Geological  Formations  of 

Ei^landas  influencing  Supplies  of  Water.     By  Samuel  Hughes, 

F.G.S.,  Civil  Engineer.     New  and  enlarged  edition,  i2mo,  with 

numerous  Illustrations,  5^.,  doth  boards. 
"  One  of  the  most  convenient,  and  at  the  same  time  reliable  works  on  a  subject, 
the  vital  importance  o£  which  cannot  be  over-estimated." — Bra4ford  Observer, 

Coal  and  Coal  Mining. 

COAL  AND  COAL  MINING :  a  Rudimentary  Treatise  on.  By 
Warington  W.  Smyth,  M. a.,  F.R.S.,  &c..  Chief  Inspector 
of  the  Mines  of  the  Crown  and  of  the  Duchy  of  Cornwall.  New 
edition,  revised  and  corrected.  l2mo,  with  numerous  Illustra- 
tions, 4J.  6</.,  doth  boards. 


M  _ 

of  the  two  principal  methods  of  working,  the  book  will  doubdess  interest  a  very 
bunKe  number  of  xtadenJ^—Minitig  y^ttmai. 


IJ        WORKS  IN  ENGINEERING,  SURVEYING,  ETC, 

Roads  atid  Streets. 

THE  CONSTRUCTION  OF  ROADS  AND  STREETS.     In 

Two  Parts.     I.  The  Art  of  Constnictine  Common  Roads.     By 

Henry  Law,  C.E.     Revised  and  Condensed  by  D.  Kinnear 

Clark,  C.E.— II.  Recent  Practice  in  the  Constroction  of  Roads 

and  Streets  :  including  Pavements  of  Stone,  Wood,  and  Asphalte. 

By  D.  Kinnear  Clark,  C.E.,  M.I.C.E.,  Author  of  "Railway 

Machinery,"  "  A  Manual  of  Rules,  Tables,  and  Data,"  &c.     With 

numerous  Illustrations.     i2mo,  5;.,  cloth.  [yust  fuMuhai. 

"  A  book  which  every  borough  surveyor  and  engineer  must  possess,  and  which  will 

be  of  considerable  service  to  architects,  builders,  and  property  owners  generally.  *— 

Building  Newt.  _ 

"  The  volume  is  suggestive,  and  will  be  an  acquisition  not  only  to  engineers  but  to 
the  neater  number  of  people  in  this  country  on  whom  devolves  the  administration  of 
roads  as  a  part  of  the  system  of  local  government." — The  Architect. 

**  To  highway  and  town  surveyors  this  book  will  have  the  utmost  value,  and  ascon- 
tainmg  the  largest  amount  of  information  in  the  shortest  space  and  at  the  lowest  price, 
we  may  predict  for  it  a  wide  circulation." — JcnmalofGae  Lighting, 

Field-Book  for  Engineers. 

THE  ENGINEER'S,  MINING  SURVEYOR'S,  and  CON- 
TRACTOR'S  FIELD-BOOK.  By  W.  Davis  Haskoll,  CE. 
Third  Edition,  enlarged,  consisting  of  a  Series  of  Tables,  with 
Rules,  Explanations  of  Systems,  and  Use  of  Theodolite  for  Travecse 
Surveying  and  Plotting  the  Work  with  minute  accununr  by  means 
of  Straight  Edge  and  Set  Square  only ;  Levelling  with  the  Theodo- 
lite, Casting  out  and  Reduang  Levels  to  Datum,  and  Plotting  Sec- 
tions in  the  ordinary  manner;  Setting  out  Curves  with  the  Theodo- 
lite b^  Tangential  Angles  and  Multiples  with  Right  and  Left-hand 
Readmgs  of  the  Instrument ;  Setting  out  Curves  without  Theodolite 
on  the  System  of  Tangential  Angles  by  Sets  of  Tangents  and  Off- 
'     sets ;  and  Earthwork  Tables  to  &  feet  deep,  calculated  for  eveiy  6 

inches  in  depth.     With  numerous  wood-cuts,  iimo,  I2x.  doth. 
"  The  book  is  very  handy,  and  the  audior  might  have  added  that  the  separata  ubics 
of  sines  and  tangents  to  every  minute  will  make  it  useful  for  many  other  puxpoMs,  the 
genuine  traverse  tables  existmg  all  die  same."— ^M^iurwiw. 
'*  A  very  useful  work  for  the  practical  engineer  auid  surveyor.*'— i^tfc/amf  Ntwt. 
"  The  work  forms  a  handsome  pocket  volume,  and  cannot  fail,  from  its  portability 
and  utility,  to  be  extensively  patronised  by  the  engineering  profession.''--'Jf««Myr 

"  We  strongly  recommend  it  to  all  dasset  of  surveyon."— Ctf/Zwry  Gmardian, 

Earthwork^  Measurement  and  Calculation  of. 

A  MANUAL  on  EARTHWORK.    By  Alex.  J.  S.  Graham, 

C.E.,  Resident  Engineer,  Forest  of  Dean  Central  Railway.    With 

numerous  Diamms,     i8mo,  2j.  td.  doth. 

*'  As  a  really  handy  Dook  for  reference,  we  know  of  no  work  eqoal  to  it ;  and  die 

railway  ensineers  and  others  emoloyed  in  the  measurement  and  calculatkm  of  eartbo 

wcvk  will  find  a  great  amount  01  practical  information  very  admirably  amnged,  and 

available  for  general  or  rough  estimates,  as  well  as  for  the  more  exact  calculations 

required  in  the  engineers'  contractor's  offices.  "--'^WiMMm. 

Harbours. 

THE  DESIGN  and  CONSTRUCTION  of  HARBOURS  1  A 
Treatise  on  Maritime  Engineering.  By  Thomas  Stevenson, 
F.R.S.K,  F.G.S.,  M.I.C.E.  Second  Edition,  containing  manv 
additional  subjects,  and  otherwise  generally  extended  and  revised. 
With  20  Plates  and  numerous  Cuts.    Small  4to,  15/.  doth.    ~ 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.        13 

Bridge  Construction  in  Masonry^  Timber,  &  Iran. 

EXAMPLES  OF  BRIDGE  AND  VIADUCT  CONSTRUC- 
TION OF  MASONRY,  TIMBER,  AND  IRON  ;  consistiiiflr  of 
46  Plates  from  the  Contract  Drawings  or  Admeasurement  of  sdect 
Works.    By  W.  Davis  Haskoll,  C.E.     Second  Edition,  with 
the  addition  of  554  Estimates,  and  the  Practice  of  Setting  out  Works, 
illustrated  with  6  pages  of  Diagnuns.     Imp.  4to,  2/.  I2f.  M  half- 
morocco. 
'*  One  of  the  yvrf  few  works  extant  descending  to  the  level  of  ordinary  rontini^  and 
treating  on  the  commoi  eyery*dav  practice  of  the  railway  engineer.  ...  A  work  of 
the  present  nature  by  a  man  of  Mr.  Haskoll's  experience,  must  prove  invalnabla  to 
hundreds.    The  tables  of  estimates  appended  to  this  edition  will  considerably  enhaacn 
its  y^Xyx'tJ^'^BHgiMMriHg, 

Mathematical  Instruments^  their  Construction^  &rc. 

MATHEMATICAL  INSTRUMENTS  :  their  CONSTRUC- 
TION,  ADJUSTMENT,  TESTING,  AND  USE;  comprising 
Drawing,  Measuring,  Optical,  Surveying,  and  Astronomical  Instm- 
ments.  6v  J.  F.  Heather,  M.A.,  Author  of  **  Practical  Plane 
Geometry,"  "Descriptive  Geometry,"  &c  Enlarged  Edition,  for 
the  most  part  entirely  rewritten.  With  numerous  Wood-cats. 
l2mo,  5j.  doth  boards. 

Drawing  for  Engineers ^  &c. 

THE     WORKMAN'S     MANUAL     OF     ENGINEERING 

DRAWING.      By  John  Maxton,   Instructor  in  Engineering 

Drawing,  Royal  Naval  College,  Greenwich,  formerly  of  R.  S.  N.  A., 

South  Kensington.  Third  Edition,  carefully  revised.  With  upwards 

of  300  Plates  and  Diagnuns.     i2mo,  doth,  strongly  bound,  4J.  6d, 

'*  Even  accomplished  draughtsmen  will  find  in  it  much  that  will  be  of  use  to  then. 
A  copy  of  it  should  be  kept  tor  reference  in  every  drawing  office." — £tuv$Mritig, 
**  Indiipensable  for  teachers  of  engineering  drawing."— JflfcAoMAM*  MagoMme, 

Oblique  Arches. 

A  PRACTICAL  TREATISE  ON  THE  CONSTRUCTION  of 
OBLIQUE  ARCHES.  By  John  Hart.  Third  Edition,  with 
Plates.     Imperial  8vo,  &r.  doth. 

Oblique  Bridges. 

A  PRACTICAL  and  THEORETICAL  ESSAY  on  OBUQUE 
BRIDGES,  with  13  large  folding  Plates.  By  Geo.  Watson 
Buck,  M.  Inst.  C.E.  Second  Edition,  corrected  by  W.  H. 
Barlow,  M.  Inst  C.E.    Imperial  8vo,  izr.  doth. 

"  The  standanl  text-book  for  all  engineers  regarding  skew  arches,  b  Mr.  Bode*! 
treatise,  and  it  would  be  impossible  to  consult  a  better."— 'iTfl^fmMwr. 

Pocket-Book  for  Marine  Engineers. 

A  POCKET  BOOK  FOR  MARINE  ENGINEERS.  Con- 
tainfaig  useful  Rules  and  Formulae  in  a  compact  form.  By  Frank 
IPROCTOR,  A.I.N.A.  Second  Edition,  revised  and  enla^g^ 
Royal  32mo,  leather,  gilt  edges,  with  strap,  \5. 

"We  reoofflmend  it  to  our  readers  as  going  fiur  to  supply  a  Icog-felt  wanf."* 

IfavalScieHCt, 
"A  most  useful  companion  to  all  marine  engineers." — UtUUd  Service  GoMeiU, 
**  Scarcely  anything  required  by  a  naval  engineer  appears  to  have  been  f<w 

gotten.  "^IfWt. 


14        WORKS  IN  ENGINEERING,  SURVEYING,  ETC., 

Grantham's  Iron  Skip-Building,  enlarged. 

ON  IRON  SHIP-BUILDING  ;  with  Practical  Example  and 
,  Details.  Fiflh  Edition.  Imp.  4to,  boards,  enlarged  from  24  to  40 
Plates  (21  quite  new),  including  the  latest  Examples.  Together 
with  separate  Text,  i2mo,  cloth  limp,  also  considerably  enlaiged. 
By  John  Grantham,  M.  Inst  C.E.,  &c    2/.  2x.  complete. 

**  A  thoroughly  practical  work,  and  every  question  of  the  many  in  relation  to  Inm 
shipping  which  admit  of  diversity  of  opinion,  or  have  various  and  conflicting  personal 
interests  attached  to  them,  is  treated  with  sober  and  impartial  wisdom  and  good  sense. 
.  .     As  good  a  volume  for  the  instruction  of  the  pupil  or  student  of  iron  naval 

architecture  as  can  be  found  in  any  language.**— A^fTor/iMi/  Mtchania*  Jtunud. 

'*  A  ver^  elaborate  work.^  .  .  .  it  forms  a  most  valuable  addition  10  the  history 
of  iron  shipbuilding,  while  its  having  been  prepared  by  one  who  has  made  the  subject 
bis  study  for  many  years,  and  whose  qualifications  have  been  repeatedly  recognised, 
will  recommend  it  as  one  of  practical  utility  to  all  interested  in  shipbuUding.**— ^rm^y 
and  Navy  Gazette. 

'  "Mr  Grantham's  work  is  of  great  interest.  •  .  .  It  is  also  valuable  as  a  record 
of  the  progress  of  iron  shipbuilding.  ...  It  will,  we  are  confident,  command  an 
extensive  circulation  among  shipbuilders  in  general  ...  by  order  of  the  Board 
01  Admiralty,  the  work  will  form  the  text-book  on  which  the  examination  in  iron  ship- 
building of  candidates  for  promotion  in  the  dockyards  will  be  mainly  based."— 
EHfifieervi£, 

Wealds  Dictionary  of  Terms. 

A  DICTIONARY  of  TERMS  used  in  ARCHITECTURE, 
BUILDING,  ENGINEERING,  MINING,  METALLURGY, 
ARCHilLOLGGY,  the  FINE  ARTS,  &c.  By  John  Weale. 
Fifth  Edition,  revised  and  corrected  by  Robert  Hunt,  F.R.S., 
Keeper  of  Mining  Records,  Editor  of  **  Ure's  Dictionary  of  Arts," 
&C.     l2mo,  cloth  boards,  6s. 

"  A  book  for  the  enlightenment  of  those  whose  memory  is  treacherous  or  education 
deficient  in  matters  scientific  and  industrial.  The  additions  made  of  modem  disco- 
veries and  knowledge  are  extensive,  'llie  result  is  570  pages  of  concentrated  essence 
of  elementary  knowledge,  admirably  and  5y^tcmatically  arranged,  and  presented  in 
neai  and  handy  form." — Ir^tu 

"  The  best  small  technological  dictionary'  in  the  language. *'—yfnr4/Vrr/. 

"  A  comprehensive  and  accurate  compendium.  Author,  editor,  and  publiiihers  de- 
serve high  commendations  for  producing  such  a  useful  work.  We  can  warmly  recom- 
mend such  a  dictionary  as  a  standard  work  of  reference  to  our  subscribers.  Every 
ironmonger  should  procure  it — no  engineer  should  be  without  it — builders  and  archi-' 
tects  must  admire  it—  meuUurgists  and  archaeologists  would  profit  by  it."— /rvi»- 
fHwiger. 

"  The  absolute  accuracy  of  a  work  of  this  character  can  only  be  judged  of  after 
extensive  consultation,  and  from  our  examination  it  appears  very  correct  and  very 
complete'*— //m/xr/-  ypumal. 

*'  lliere  is  no  nera  now  to  speak  of  the  excellence  of  this  woik ;  it  received  the  ap- 
proval of  the  community  lone  ago.  Edited  now  by  Mr.  Robert  Hunt,  and  published 
in  a  cheap,  handy  form,  it  wul  be  of  the  utmost  service  as  a  book  of  reference  scarcely 
to  be  exceeded  in  value."— ^V^/^y/miy. 

Steam. 

THE  SAFE  USE  OF  STEAM  :  containing  Rules  for  Unpro- 
fessional Steam  Users.  By  an  Engineer.  iTiird  Edition.  l2mo. 
Sewed,  6d, 

N.  B. — This  little  work  should  he  in  the  hands  of  every  person 
having  to  deal  with  a  Steam  Engine  of  any  kind, 

*'  If  sCeamousen  would  but  learn  this  little  book  by  heart,  and  then  hand  It  to 
their  stokers  tp  do  the  sane,  and  see  that  the  latter  do  it,  boiler  explosions  would 
become  sensations  by  their  rarity.**— ^nj^ItjA  Mecketnic. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.        1$^ 

ARCHITECTURE,  &c. 

Construction. 

THE  SCIENCE  of  BUILDING :  An  Elementaiy  Treatise  on 
the  Principles  of  Construction.  Bv  E.  Wyndkam  Tarn,  M.A., 
Architect.    With  47  Wood  Enfnravmgi.    Demy  8vo.    &r.  6d,  cloth. 

*'  A  rery  Taluable  book,  which  w«  strongly  recommend  to  all  students.  "•^M^Urr. 

"  No  Mchitectural  student  should  be  without  this  hand-book." — ArckiUci. 

*' An  able  dijiest  ol  informsuion  which  is  only  to  belbund  scattezwl  dirouKh  various 

Beaton's  Pocket  Estimator. 

THE  POCKET  ESTIMATOR  FOR  THE  BUILDING 
TRADES,  being  an  easy  method  of  estimating;  the  various  parts 
of  a  Building  coUectively,  more  especially  applied  to  Carpenters' 
and  Joiners'  work,  priced  according  to  the  present  value  of  material 
and  labour.  By  A.  C.  Bbaton,  Author  of  'Quantities  and 
Measurements.'  Second  Edition.  Carefully  revised.  33  Wood- 
cuts.    Leather.    Waistcoat-pocket  size.     u.  6ii. 

Beaton's  Builder^  and  Surveyors*  Technical  Guide. 

THE  POCKET  TECHNICAL  GUIDE  AND  MEASURER 
FOR  BUILDERS  AND  SURVEYORS:  containing  a  Complete 
Explanation  of  the  Terms  used  in  Building  Construction,  Memo- 
randa for  Reference,  Technical  Directions  for  Measuring  Work  in 
all  the  Building  Trades,  &c.,  &c.  Bv  A.  C.  Beaton.  With  X9 
Woodcuts.    Lather.    Waistcoat-pocket  size.     u.  6d, 

Villa  Architecture. 

A  HANDY  BOOK  of  VILLA  ARCHITECTURE ;  bein^  a 
Series  of  Des^^ns  for  Villa  Residences  in  various  Styles.     With 
DetaUed  Specifications  and  Estimates.     Bv  C.  Wickbs,  Architect, 
Author  of  **  The  Spiresand  Towersof  the  Mediaeval  Churches  of  Eng- 
land," &c.  Complete  in  i  vol.  61  Plates.  4to,  2/.  2j.  half  morocco. 
♦^*  A  Selection  from  the  Above,  containing  30  Designs, 
with  Detailed  Specifications,  Estimates,  &c.     2ij.  half  morocco. 
"  The  whole  of  the  designs  hear  evidence  of  their  beinff  the  work  of  an  artistic 
architect,  and  they  will  prove  very  valuable  and  susgestive.'— iffaaZi/iiM^f  Ntws, 

House  Painting. 

HOUSE  PAINTING,  GRAINING,  MARBLING,  AND 
SIGN  WRITING  :  a  Practical  Manual  o£  With  9  Coloured 
Plates  of  Woods  and  Marbles,  and  nearly  1^0  Wood  En^vings. 
By  Ellis  A.  Davidson,  Author  of  '  Buildmg  Construction,'  &c. 
Second  Edition,  carefully  revised.  i2mo,  dr.  cloth  boards. 
'*  Contains  a  mass  of  iaronnataon  of  use  to  the  amateur  and  of  vakie  to  the  practical 
mzix.**-^Eng-lisk  Mtchanic. 

"  Deals  With  the  practice  of  painting  in  all  its  parts,  from  the  grinding  of  colours 
to  varnishing  and  aMdmg.**-^ArcAtitct. 

Wilsons  Boiler  atid  Factory  Chimneys. 

BOILER  AND  FACTORY  CHIMNEYS  ;  their  Draught  power 
and  Stability,  with  a  chapter  on  Lightning  Conductors.  By  Robert 
Wilson,  AI.C.E.,  Author  of  •*  Treatise  on  Steam  Boilers,'* 
&c.,  &c.     Crown  8vo,  y.  6(/.,  cloth.  \7ust  pttblished, 

**  K  most  valuable  book  of  its  kind,  full  of  useful  information,  definite  in  statement, 
and  thoroughly  practical  in  treatment"— r^^  Local  Gwtmtntnt  Chronicle, 


i6  WORKS  IN  ARCHITECTURE,  ETC., 

A  Book  on  Building. 

A  BOOK  ON  BUILDING,  CIVIL  AND  ECCLESIASTICAL. 

By  Sir  Edmund  Beckett,  Bart,   LL.D.,  Q.C.,    F.R.AS., 

Author  of  **  tlocVs  and  Watches  and  Bells,"  &a     Crown  8vo, 

with  Illustrations,  *js.  6</.,  cloth. 

*'  A  book  which  is  always  amusixig  and  nearly  always  instractive.    Sir  E.  B«ckett 

will  be  read  for  the  raciness  of  nis  style.    We  are  able  very  cordially  to  recenuneiid 

all  persons  to  read  it  for  thenuelves.    The  style  throughout  is  in  the  highest  degree 

condensed  and  epigrammatic,"— 7»ir#f. 

"  We  commend  the  book  to  the  thoughtful  consideration  of  all  who  are  interested 
in  the  buUding  txiT— Builder, 

**  There  is  hardly  a  subject  connected  with  either  "building  or  repairing  on  whidi 
sendble  and  practical  directions  will  not  be  found,  the  use  of  which  is  probably 
destined  to  prevent  many  an  annoyance,  disappointment,  and  unnecessary  expense. 
'^Daify  News. 

Architecture^  Ancient  and  Modern. 

RUDIMENTARY  ARCHITECTURE,  Ancient  and  Modem. 
Consisting  of  VITRUVIUS,  translated  by  Joseph  Gwilt, 
F.S.A.,  &c.,  with  23  fine  copper  plates;  GRECIAN  Archi- 
tecture, by  the  Earl  of  Aberdeen  ;  the  ORDERS  of 
Architecture,  by  W.  H.  Leeds,  Esq. ;  The  STYLES  of  Archi- 
tecture  of  Various  Countries,  by  T.  Talbot  Bury;  The 
PRINCIPLES  of  DESIGN  in  Architecture,  by  E.  L.  Garbett. 
In  one  volume,  half-bound  (pp.  1,100),  copiously  illustrated,  I2j-. 
%*  Sold  separately^  in  two  vols,^  asjfollows — 

ANCIENT    ARCHITECTURE.      Containing  Gwilt^s    Vitruyius 
and  Aberdeen's  Grecian  Architecture.     Price  6s,  half  •bound. 

N.B.—  This  is  the  only  edition  of  VITRUVIUS  proeurabU  at  a 
moderate  price, 

MODERN  ARCHITECTURE.   Containing  the  Orders,  by  Leeds  ; 
The  Styles,  by  Bury ;  and  Design,  by  Garbett    6x.  half-bound. 

The  Young  Architects  Book. 

HINTS  TO  YOUNG  ARCHITECTS.  By  George  Wioht- 
WICK,  Architect,  Author  of  "  The  Palace  of  Architecture,"  &c.  &c. 
New  Edition,  revised  and  enlarged.  By  G.  HusKissoN  GuiL- 
LAUME,  Architect.  Numerous  illustrations.  1 2mo,  cloth  boards,  4r. 
"  Will  be  found  an  acquisition  to  pupils,  and  a  copy  ought  to  be  conadered  as 
necessary  a  purchase  as  a  dox  of  instruments." — Architect. 

**  Contains  a  huge  amount  of  information,  which  voung  ardiitects  will  do  well  to 
acquire,  if  they  yiisa  to  succeed  in  the  everyday  woric  of  their  profession.  *'^Englith 
Mechanic, 

Drawing  for  Builders  and  Students. 

PRACTICAL  RULES  ON  DRAWING  for  the  OPERATIVE 
BUILDER  and  YOUNG  STUDENT  in  ARCHITECTURE. 
By  George  Pyne,  Author  of  a  "  Rudimentary  Treatise  on  Per- 
spective for  Beginners."    With  14  Plates,  4to,  7^.  td.  boards. 

Builder^ s  and  Centrcutors  Price  Book. 

LOCKWOOD  &  CO.'S  BUILDER'S  AND  CONTRACTOR'S 
PRICE  BOOK  for  1878,  containing  the  latest  priqes  of  all  kinds 
of  Builders'  Materials  and  Labour,  and  of  all  Trades  connected 
with  Building,  &c.,  &c.  The  whole  revised  and  edited  by 
Francis  T.  W.  Miller,  Architect  and  Surveyor,  Fcap.  8vo, 
strongly  half-bound,  41. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.         17 

Handbook  of  Specifications. 

THE  HANDBOOK  OF  SPECIFICATIONS;  or,   PracHcal 

Guide  to  the  Architect,  Engineer,  Surveyor,  and  Builder,  in  drawing 

np  Specifications  and  Contracts  for  Works  and  Constructions. 

lUustrated  by  Precedents  of  BuUdings  actually  executed  b^  eminent 

Architects  and  Engineers.     Preceded  by  a  Prdiminaxy  Essay,  and 

Skeletons  of  Specmcations  and  Contracts,  &c.,  &c.     By  Professor 

Thomas  L.  Donaldson,  M.I.B.A.    With  A  Review  of  the 

Law  of  Contracts.     By  W.  Cunningham   Glen,   of  the 

Middle  Temple.    With  33  Lithographic  Plates,  2  vols.,  8vo,  2/.  21. 

*'  In  these  two  Yolumesof  1,100  pa^ei  (tog^ether),  forW-four  specifications  of  executed 

works  are  given,  including  the  specincations  for  parts  of  the  new  Houses  of  Parliament, 

by  Sir  Charles  Barry,  and  tor  the  new  Royal  Exchmge,  by  Mr.  Tite.  M.P. 

Donaldson's  Handbook  of  Specificaticms  must  be  bought  by  aU  arcnitects."— ^»ii&i!rr. 

Taylor  and  Cresys  Rome. 

THE  ARCHITECTURAL  ANTIQUITIES  OF  ROME.  By 
the  late  G.  L.  Taylor,  Esq.,  F.S.  A.,  and  Edwabd  Cresy,  Esq. 
New  Edition,  thoroughly  revised,  and  supplemented  under  the 
editorial  care  of  the  Rev.  Alexander  Taylor,  M.A.  (son  of 
the  late  G.  L.  Taylor,  Esq.),  Chaplain  of  Gray's  Inn.  This  is 
the  only  book  which  gives  on  a  large  scale,  and  with  the  precision 
of  architectural  measurement,  the  principal  Monuments  of  Ancient 
Rome  in  plan,  elevation,  and  detail,  ikige  folio,  with  130  Plates, 
half-bound,  3/.  3.r. 
*•*  Originally  published  in  two  volumes,  folio,  at  iS/.  iSi. 

Specifications  for  Practical  Architecture. 

SPECIFICATIONS  FOR  PRACTICAL  ARCHITECTURE : 

A  Guide  to  the  Architect,  Engineer,  Surveyor,  and  Builder ;  with 

an  Essay  on  the  Structure  and  Science  of  Modem  Buildings.     By 

Frederick  Rogers,  Architect     With  numerous  Illustrations. 

Demy  8vo,  15^.,  cloth.    (Published  at  i/.  lOf.) 

\*  A  volumeof  specifications  of  a  practical  character  being  greatly  required,  and  the 
old  standard  work  of  Alfired  Bartholomew  bemg  out  of  print,  the  author,  on  the  basis 
dt  that  work,  has  produced  the  above.  ^  He  has  also  inserted  specifications  of  works 
that  have  been  erected  in  his  ovm  practice. 

The  Hotise-Owner^s  Estimator. 

THE  HOUSE-OWNER'S  ESTIMATOR ;  or.  What  wiU  it 
Cost  to  Build,  Alter,  or  Repair?  A  Price-Book  adapted  to  the 
Use  of  Unprofessional  People  as  well  as  for  the  Architectural 
Surveyor  and  Builder.  By  the  late  James  D.  Simon,  A.R.I.B.  A. 
Edited  and  Revised  by  Francis  T.  W.  Miller,  Surveyor.  With 
numerous  Illustrations.  Second  Edition,  with  the  prices  carefully 
revised  to  1875.     Crown  8vo,  doth,  y.  id. 

'*  In  two  years  it  wiU  repay  its  cost  a  hundred  times  over." — Field. 

*'  A  very  dandy  book  for  ttiose  who  want  to  know  what  a  house  will  cost  to  build, 
alter  or  repair.**— JSn^-iuA  MechoMte, 

"  Especially  valuable  to  non-professional  readers." — Mming  yenrmtl. 

Useful  Text-Book  for  Architects. 

THE  ARCHITECT'S  GUIDE  :  Being  a  Text-book  of  Useful 
Information  for  Architects,  Engineers,  Surveyors,  Contractors, 
Clerks  of  Works,  &c.,  &c.  By  Frederick  Rogers,  Architect, 
Author  of  '  Specifications  for  Practical  Architecture,'  &c.  With 
numerous  Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  dr.  cloth. 


l8  WORKS  ON  CARPENTRY,  TIMBER,  ETC., 

CARPENTRY,  TIMBER,  MECHANICS. 

1 

TredgoUTs  Carpentry,  new  and  cheaper  Edition. 

THE  ELEMENTARY  PRINCIPLES  OF  CARPENTRY: 
a  Treatise  on  the  Pressure  and  Equilibrium  of  Timber  Framing,  the 
Resistance  of  Timber,  and  the  Construction  of  Floors,  Arches, 
Bridges,  Roofs,  Uniting  Iron  and  Stone  with  Timber,  &c  To  which 
is  added  an  Essay  on  the  Nature  and  Properties  of  Timber,  &c, 
with  Descriptions  of  the  Kinds  of  Wood  used  in  Building ;  also 
numerous  Tables  of  the  Scantlings  of  Timber  for  different  purposes, 
the  Specific  Gravities  of  Materials,  &c.  By  Thomas  Tredgold, 
C.E.  Edited  by  Peter  Barlow,  F.R.S.  Fifth  Edition,  cor- 
rected and  enlarged.  With  64  Plates  (i  I  of  which  now  first  appear 
in  this  edition).  Portrait  of  the  Author,  and  several  Woodcuts.  In 
X  vol.,  4to,  published  at  2/.  2J.,  reduced  to  i/.  $/.,  dodi. 
^  "'Tredgold's  Carpentry'  ought  to  be  in  every  ardiitec^s  and  every  builder's 
library,  and  those  who  do  not  aheady  posaess  it  ought  to  avail  tbenuelves  of  the  new 
\asia!t,'— Builder. 

"A  work  whose  monumental  excdlence  must  commend  it  wherever  skilful  car- 
pentry is  concerned.  The  Author's  principles  are  rather  confirmed  dian  impanred  by 
time,  and,  as  now  presented,  comlnne  the  surest  base  with  the  most  interesting  dbplay 
of  progresaiye  sdenoe.  The  additional  plates  are  of  great  intrinsic  value."— ^imtfiMtf 
Nnut. 

Grandys  Timber  Tables. 

THE   TIMBER  IMPORTER'S,   TIMBER   MERCHANT'S, 

and  BUILDER'S    STANDARD  GUIDE.      By  Richard  £. 

Grandy.     Comprising  : — An  Analysis  of  Deal  Standards,  Home 

and  Foreign,  with  comparative  Values  and  Tabular  Arrangements 

for  Fixing  Nett  Landed  Cost  on  Baltic  and  North  American  Deals, 

including  all  intermediate  Expenses,  Freight,  Insurance,  &c,  &c.  ; 

together  with  Copious  Information  for  £e  Retailer  and  BuUder. 

Second  Edition.     Carefully  revised  and  corrected.     i2mo,  31.  6^ 

doth. 

*'  Everything  it  pretends  to  be :  built  up  fjadually,  it  leads  one  from  a  forest  to  a 

treenail,  smd  tmrows  in,  as  a  makeweight,  a  nost  of  material  oonceminff  bricks,  columns, 

cisterns,  &c.-**-all  that  the  class  to  whom  it  appeals  retjuires.**— ^mfZwA  Meckatuc 

*'  The  only  difficulty  we  have  is  as  to  what  u  not  in  its  pages.  VOiat  we  have  tested 
of  the  contents,  taken  at  randtmi,  is  invariably  correct." — lUustratidBuiUUf't  Jmtmal^ 

TaJ)les  for  Packing-Case  Makers. 

PACKING-CASE  TABLES  ;  showing  the  number  of  Superficial 
Feet  in  Boxes  or  Packing- Cases,  from  six  inches  square  and 
upwards.  Compiled  by  William  Richardson,  Accountant. 
Second  Edition.    Oblong  4to,  3J.  6</.,  cloth.  [just Pubiisked, 

"Will  save  much  labour  and  calculation  to  packing-case  makers  and  those  who  use 
packing-cases."— <rnK-^.  "  Invaluable  labour-saving  tables."— /nwjviMifvr. 

Nicholson* s  Carpenters  Guide. 

THE  CARPENTER'S  NEW  GUIDE ;  or,  BOOK  of  LINES 
for  CARPENTERS  :  comprising  all  the  Elementary  Principles 
essential  for  acquiring  a  knowledge  of  Carpentry.  Founded  on  the 
late  Peter  Nicholson's  standard  work.  A  new  Edition,  revised 
by  Arthur  Ashpitel,  F.S.A.,  together  with  Practical  Rules  on 
Drawing,  by  George  Pyne.    With  74  Plates,  4t(^  i/.  is.  doth. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.        19 

Dowsing^ s  Titnber  Merchant* s  Companion. 

THE  TIMBER  MERCHANTS  AND  BUILDER'S  COM- 
PANION ;  containing  New  and  Copious  TaUes  of  the  Reduced 
Weight  and  Measurement  of  Deals  and  Battens,  of  all  sites,  from 
One  to  a  Thousand  Pieces,  and  the  relative  Price  that  each  size 
bears  per  Lineal  Foot  to  any  given  Price  per  Petersburgh  Standard 
Hundred  ;  the  Price  per  Cube  Foot  of  Square  Timber  to  any  given 
Price  per  Load  of  50  Feet ;  the  proportionate  Value  of  Dads  and 
Battens  by  the  Standard,  to  Sc|uare  Timber  by  the  Load  of  50  Feet : 
the  readiest  mode  of  ascertaining  the  Price  of  Scantling  per  Lineal 
Foot  of  any  size,  to  any  given  Figure  per  Cube  Foot.  Also  a 
variety  of  other  valuable  information.  By  William  Dowsing, 
Timber  Merchant  Third  Edition,  Revised  and  Corrected.  Crown 
8vo,  3J.  doth. 
"£verything  is  as  concise  and  clear  as  it  can  possibly  be  made.  There  can  be  no 
doubt  that  every  timber  merchant  and  builder  ought  to  possess  it.** — Hull  Advertiur, 

Timber  Freight  Book. 

THE  TIMBER  IMPORTERS'  AND  SHIPOWNERS' 
FREIGHT  BOOK  :  Being  a  Comprehensive  Series  of  Tables  for 
the  Use  of  Timber  Importers,  Captams  of  Ships,  Shipbrokers, 
Builders,  and  all  Dealers  in  Wood  whatsoever.  By  William 
Richardson,  Timber  Broker.    Crown  8vo,  6j.,  doth. 

Norton* s  Measurer. 

THE  COMPLETE  MEASURER ;  setting  forth  the  Measure- 
ment  of  Boards,  Glass,  &c.,  &c. ;  Unequal-sided,  Square-sided, 
Octagonal-sided,  Round  Timber  and  Stone,  and  Standing  Timber. 
With   just   allowances  for  the  bark  in  the  respective  species  of 
trees,  and  proper  deductions  for  the  waste  in  hewing  the  trees, 
&c. ;  also  a  Table  showing  the  solidity  of  hewn  or  eight-sided 
timber,  or  of  any  octagonal-sided    column.      Compiled  for  the 
accommodation  of  Timber-growers,  Merchants,   and   Surveyors, 
Stonemasons,  Architects,   and  others.     By  Richard  Horton. 
Third  edition,  with  considerable  and  valuable  additions,   i2mo, 
strongly  bound  in  leather,  5j. 
"Not  only  are  the  best  methods  of  measurement  shown,  and  in  some  instances 
illustrated  by  means  of  woodcuts,  but  the  erroneous  sjrstems  pursued  by  dishonest 
dealers  are  fully  exposed.  ....  The  work  must  be  considered  to  be  a  valuable  addi- 
tion to  every  gardener's  library.— C^niry*. 

Superficial  Measurement. 

THE  TRADESMAN'S  GUIDE  TO  SUPERFICIAL  MEA- 
SUREMENT.  Tables  calculated  from  i  to  200  mches  in  length, 
by  I  to  108  inches  in  breadth.  For  the  use  of  Architects,  Surveyors, 
^igineers,  Timber  Merchants,  Builders,  &c.  By  James  Haw- 
kings.     Fcp.  y,  6d,  doth. 

Practical  Timber  Merchant. 

THE  PRACTICAL  TIMBER  MERCHANT,  being  a  Guide 
for  the  use  of  Building  Contractors,  Surveyors,  Buuders,  &c., 
comprising  useful  Tables  for  all  purposes  connected  with  the 
Timber  Trade,  Marks  of  Wood,  Essay  on  the  Strength  of  Timber, 
Remarks  on  the  Growth  of  Timber,  &c.  By  W.  Richardson. 
Fcap.  8vo,  3J.  6</.,  cloth. 


30  WORKS  IN  MECHANICS,   ETC., 



The  Mechanu^s  Workshop  Companion. 

THE   OPERATIVE    MECHANIC'S    WORKSHOP    COM- 

PANION,  and  THE  SCIENTIFIC  GENTLEMAN'S  PRAC- 

TICAL  ASSISTANT.     By  William  Tbmplbton.     Twelfth 

Edition,  widi  Mechanical  Tables  forOperatiye  Smiths,  Millwrights* 

Engineers,  &c. ;    and  an  Extensive  Table  of  Powers  and  Roots, 

&c.,  &c.     II  Plates.    i2mo,  5^.  bound. 

"  As  a  text-book  of  reference,  in  which  mechanical  and  commercial  demands  are 

judiciously  met,  Tkmplbton's  Companion  stands  unrivalled.  *'^M€cka»Uc/Mfpuim, 

"  Admirably  adapted  to  tlie  wants  of  a  very  lar^e  class.    It  has  met  with  great 

success  in  the  engineering  workshop,  as  we  can  testify ;  and  there  are  a  gnat  many 

men  who,  in  a  great  measure,  owe  their  rise  in  life  to  this  Uttle  worL^^^^Bftilamg  Ntwt. 

Engineer's  Assistant. 

THE  ENGINEER'S,  MILLWRIGHT'S,  and  MACHINISTS 
PRACTICAL  ASSISTANT ;  comprising  a  Collection  of  Useful 
Tables,  Rules,  and  Data.  Compiled  and  Arranged,  with  Original 
Matter,  by  William  Templbton.  6th  Edition.  i8mo,  2s,  6d. 
doth. 

\*  So  much  varied  information  compressed  into  so  small  a  space,  and  published  at  a 
price  which  places  it  within  the  reach  of  die  humblest  mechanic,  cannot  fail  to  com* 
mand  the  sale  which  it  deserves.  With  the  utmost  confidence  we  commend  this  book 
to  the  attention  of  our  readers." — M€eha$tiei  Magazine, 

**  A  more  suitable  present  to  an  apprentice  to  any  of  the  medianical  trades  could  not 
possibly  be  made.**— ^m^Vm^  JNrtus, 

Designings  Measuring ^  and  Valuing. 

THE  STUDENTS  GUIDE  to  the  PRACTICE  of  MEA- 
SURING,  andVALUING  ARTIFICERS'  WORKS;  containing 
Directions  for  taking  Dimensions,  Abstractii^  the  same,  and  bringing 
the  Quantities  into  Bill,  with  Tables  of  Constants,  and  copious 
Memoranda  for  the  Valuation  of  Labour  and  Materials  in  the  re- 
spective Trades  of  Bricklayer  and  Slater,  Carpenter  and  Joiner, 
Painter  and  Glazier,  Paperhanger,  &c.  With  43  Plates  and  ^Yood- 
cuts.  Originally  edited  by  Edward  Dobson,  Architect.  New 
Edition,  re-written,  with  Additions  on  Mensuration  and  Construc- 
tion, and  useful  Tables  for  facilitating  Calculations  and  Measure- 
ments.   By  £.  Wyndham  Tarn,  M.A.,  8vo,  lor.  6t/.  doth. 

"  We  haye  failed  to  discover  anything  connected  with  the  buildiiur  trade,  fitm  ex- 
cavating foundations  to  bell-hanging,  that  is  not  fully  treated  upon.^— TA^  ArtiMmn, 

**  Altogether  the  book  is  one  whidi  well  fulfils  the  promise  of  itt  title-pa|;e,  and  w« 
can  thoroughly  recommend  it  to  the  dass  for  whose  use  it  has  been  compiled.  Mr. 
Tarn's  additions  and  revisions  have  much  increased  the  usefulness  of  the  woric,  and 
have  e4>ecially  au^mdited  its  value  to  stttdents."— 'iiytf  »««rr«v> 

Plumbing. 

PLUMBING ;  a  text-book  to  the  practice  of  the  ait  or  craft  of  the 

C*    nber.     With  supplementary  chapters  upon  house-drainage,  em- 
ying  the  latest  improvements.    By  William  Paton  Buchan, 
Sanitary  Engineer.     i2mo.,  with  about  300  illustrations.    31.  6^., 
cloth. 
"There  is  no  other  manual  in  existence  of  the  plumber's  art ;  and  the  volume  will 
be  welcomed  as  the  woric  of  a  practical  master  of  nis  tnAt/'—PuUic  HnUtk, 
**  The  chapters  on  house-drainage  may  be  usefully  consulted,  not  only  by  plumbers, 

but  alio  bv  eqgineers  and  all  engaged  or  interested  in  house-building.  — Irwi,    

*'  A  book  contsining  a  large  amount  of  practical  information,  put  together  in  a  very 
intelligent  nuumer,  by  one  who  is  well  quidified  for  the  task."---C'i<r  rreu. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.         3i 

MATHEMATICS,  &c. 

Gregorys  Practical  Mathematics. 

MATHEMATICS  for  PRACTICAL  MEN  ;  being  a  Common- 
place Book  of  Pure  and  Mixed  Mathematics.  Designed  chiefly 
lor  the  Use  of  Civil  Engineers,  Architects,  and  Surveyors,  Part  1. 
Purs  Mathematics— comprising  Arithmetic,  Algebra,  Geometry, 
Mensuration,  Trigonometry,  Conic  Sections,  Properties  of  Curves. 
Part  II.  Mixed  Mathematics — comprising  Mechanics  in  general. 
Statics,  Dynamics,  Hydrostatics,  Hydrodynamics,  Pneumatics, 
Mechanical  Agents,  Strength  of  Materials.  With  an  Appendix  of 
copious  Logarithmic  and  other  Tables.  By  Olinthus  Gregory, 
LL.  D. ,  F.R.  A.  S.  Enlarged  by  Henry  Law,  C.  E.  4th  Edition, 
carefully  revised  and  corrected  by  J.  R,  Young,  formerly  Profes- 
sor of  Mathematics,  Belfast  College ;  Author  of  "  A  Course  of 
Mathematics,"  ftc    With  13  Plates.     Medium  8vo,  i/.  is,  doth. 

"  As  a  standard  work  on  mathematics  it  has  not  been  excelled." — Artizan. 

"  Hie  engineer  or  atrchitect  will  here  find  ready  to  his  hand^pjules  for  solving  nearly 
every  mathematical  difficulty  that  mav  arise  in  his  practice.  The  rules  are  in  all  cases 
explained  by  means  of  examples,  in  woich  every  step  of  the  process  is  dearly  worked 
out.**—Butldtr. 

"One  of  the  most  serviceable  books  to  the  practical  mechanics  of  the  country. 

In  the  edition  tust  brought  out,  the  work  has  again  been  revised  by 

Professor  Young.  He  has  modernised  the  notation  throughout,  introduced  a  few 
paragraphs  here  and  there,  and  corrected  the  numerous  typographical  errors  whidi 
nave  escaped  the  eyes  of  the  former  Editor.  The  book  is  now  as  complete  as  it  is 
possible  to  make  it.  It  is  an  instructive  book  for  the  student,  and^  a  Text- 
book for  him  who  having  once  mastered  the  subjects  it  treats  of,  needs  occasionally  to 
refresh  his  memory  upon  them.**— ^imZi/cV^  Nrwt, 

The  Metric  System. 

A  SERIES  OF  METRIC  TABLES,  in  which  the  British 
Standard  Measures  and  Weights  are  compared  with  those  of  the 
Metric  System  at  present  in  use  on  the  Continent  By  C.  H. 
DOWLING,  C.  E.  Second  Edition,  revised  and  enlarged.  8vo, 
lOf.  dd,  strongly  bound. 

"  Mr.  Dowling's  Tables,  which  are  well  put  together,  come  just  in  time  as  a  ready 
reckoner  for  the  conversion  of  one  system  into  the  other." — Athentnim, 

"Their  accuracy  has  been  certified  by  Prof.  Airy,  Astronomer-RojraL"— ^ftfiUIrr. 

"  Reselution  8.— That  advantage  will  be  derived  from  the  recent  publication  of 
Metric  TaUa,  I7  a  U.  Dowling.  CJL^^RfPcrt^StctwHFt  Brit,  Astoe.,  Bath, 

Comprehensive  Weight  Calculator. 

THE  WEIGHT  CALCULATOR;  being  a  Series  of  Tables 
upon  a  New  and  Comprehensive  Plan,  eidiibiting  at  one  Reference 
the  exact  Value  of  any  Weight  from  lib.  to  15  tons,  at  300  Pro- 
gressive Rates,  from  l  Penny  to  168  Shillings  per  cwt.,  and  con- 
taining 186,000  Direct  Answers,  which  with  their  Combinations, 
consisting  of  a  single  addition  (mostly  to  be  performed  at  sight), 
will  affoM  an  aggregate  of  10,266,000  Answers  ;  the  whole  being 
calculated  and  designed  to  ensure  Correctness  and  promote 
Despatch.  By  Henry  Harben,  Accountant,  Sheffield,  Author 
of  *The  Discount  Guide.'  An  entirely  New  Edition,  carefully 
revised.    Royal  8vo,  strongly  half-bound,  30;. 


22  WORKS  IN  MATHEMATICS,  ETC., 

Comprehensive  Discount  Guide. . 

THE  DISCOUNT  GUIDE  :  comprising  several  Series  of  Tables 
for  the  use  of  Merchants,  Manufacturers,  Ironmongers,  and  others, 
by  which  may  be  ascertained  the  exact  profit  arising  from  any  mode 
of  using  Discounts,  either  in  the  Purchase  or  Sale  of  Goods,  and 
the  method  of  either  Altering  a  Rate  of  Discount,  or  Advancing  a 
Price,  so  as  to  produce,  by  one  operation,  a  sum  that  will  reause 
any  required  profit  after  allowing  one  or  more  Discounts :  to  which 
are  added  Tables  of  Profit  or  Advance  from  i|^  to  90  per  cent., 
Tables  of  Discount  from  i  J  to  98I  per  cent.,  and  Tables  of  Commis- 
sion, &c.,  from  \  to  10  per  cent.  By  Henry  Harben,  Accountant, 
Author  of  "The  Weight  Calculator."  New  Edition,  carefully  Re- 
vised and  Corrected.  In  a  handsome  demy  8vo.  volume  (544  pp.), 
strongly  and  elegantly  half-bound,;^ I  5j. 

Inwood's  Tables y  greatly  enlarged  and  improved. 

TABLES  FOR  THE  PURCHASING  of  ESTATES,  Frediold, 
Copyhold,  or  Leasehold;  Annuities,  Advowsons,  &c,  and  for  the 
Renewing  of  Leases  held  under  Cathedral  Churches,  Colleges,  or 
other  corporate  bodies;  for  Terms  of  Years  certain,  and  for  Lives ; 
also  for  Valuing  Reversionary  Estates,  Deferred  Annuities,  Next 
Presentations,  &c,  together  with  Smart's  Five  Tables  of  Compotmd 
Interest,  and  an  Extension  of  the  same  to  Lower  and  Intermediate 
Rates.  By  William  Inwood,  Architect  The  20th  edition,  with 
considerable  additions,  and  new  and  valuable  Tables  of  Logarithms 
for  the  more  Difficult  Computations  of  the  Interest  of  Money,  Dis- 
count, Annuities,  &c.,  by  M.  FtooR  Thoman,  of  the  Soci^^ 
Credit  Mobilier  of  Paris.  i2mo,  &-.  cloth. 
"  Those  interested  in  the  purchase  and  sale^  of  estates,  and  in  the  adjustraeitf  of 

compensation  cases,  as  well  as  in  transactions  in  annuities,  life  insuranoes,  &c.,  will 

'  nd  the  present  edition  of  eminent  service." — En^ituering^. 
'*  'Inwood's  Tables'  still  maintain  a  most  enviaole  reputation.  The  new  issue  has  heen 


find  the  present  edition  of  eminent  tKrnot.**'—En^itueriMg. 
**  *  Inwood's  Tables'  still  maintain  a  most  enviaole  repttlati< 
enriched  by  large  additional  contributions  by  M.  Fifdor  Thoman,  whose  carefully 
arranged  Tables  cannot  fail  to  be  of  the  utmost  utility," ^Mutitig^JoHrHai. 


Geometry  for  the  Architect^  Engineer^  &c. 

PRACTICAL  GEOMETRY,  for  the  Architect,  Engineer,  and 
Mechanic;  giving  Rules  for  die  Delineation  and  Application  of 
various  Geometrical  Lines,  Figures  and  Curves.    By  E.  W.  Tarn, 
M.A.,   Architect,   Author  of  "The  Science  of  Buildings"  Ac. 
With  164  Illustrations.    Demy  8vo.     12s,  6d,j  cloth. 
"  No  book  with  the  same  objects  in  view  has  ever  been  published  in  wluch  the 
clearness  of  the  rules  laid  down  and  the  illustrative  diagrams  have  been  so  satis- 
factory.''— ScoUfHtm. 

Compound  Interest  and  Annuities, 

THEORY  of  COMPOUND   INTEREST  and  ANNUITIES ; 

with  Tables  of  Logarithms  for  the  more  Difficult  Computations  <tf 

Interest,  Discount,  Annuities,  &c.,  in  all  their  Applications  and 

Uses  for  Mercantile  and  State  Purposes.    With  an  euiborate  Intro* 

duction.     By  FfcDOR  Thoman,  of  the  Soci^^  Cr^t  Mobilier, 

Paris.  3rd  Eldition,  carefully  revised  and  corrected.  i2mo,  4^.  6</.,  d. 

A  very  powerful  work,  and  the  Author  has  a  very  remaikable  coauuand  of  his 

«ubie«t"— Aie/S'XJtfT  A,  dt  Morgan. 

*' We  recommend  it  to  the  notice  of  actuaries  and  accountants.'*»X/An«nM«. 

%•  The  above  bound  with  Lintern's  Mineral  Surveyor, 
(See  page  10.)    Price  7^.  6</.  cloth. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.        23 


SCIENCE  AND  ART. 


Brewing. 

A  HANDBOOK  FOR  YOUNG  BREWERS.     By  Herbert 

Edwards  Wright,  B.A.  (Trin.  Coll.  Camb.).     Crown  8vo, 

3J.  W.,  cloth.  [ywj/  Published, 

"A  thoroughly  sdentific  treatise  in  popular  language.      It  is  evident  that  the 

author  has  mastered  his  subject  in  its  scientific  us^ecxs."—AforMt^r  Advertiser. 

**  We  would  particularly  recommend  all  teachers  of  the  art  to  place  a  copy  of  it  in 
every  pupil's  hands,  and  we  feel  sure  its  perusal  will  be  attended  with  advantage.  "-> 
^rrtver. 

The  Military  Sciences. 

AID£-M£M0IR£  to  the  MILITARY  SCIENCES.  Framed 
from  Contributions  of  Officers  and  others  connected  with  the  dif- 
ferent Services.  Originally  edited  by  a  Committee  of  the  Corps  of 
Ro^  Engineers.  Second  Edition,  most  carefully  revised  by  an 
Officer  of  the  Corps,  with  many  additions ;  containing  nearly  350 
Engravings  and  many  hundred  Woodcuts.  3  vols,  ro^  8vo,  extra 
doUi  boards,  and  lettered,  4/.  lar. 

*' A  compendious  encyclopeedia  of  military  knowledge."— ^^M^y]f A  Review, 
"  The  most  comprehensive  work  of  reference  to  the  military  and  collateral  sciences." 
— y^bmieer  Servtee  Gasetie. 

Field  Fortification. 

A  TREATISE  on  FIELD  FORTIFICATION,  the  ATTACK 
of  FORTRESSES,  MILITARY  MINING,  and  RECON- 
NOITRING.  By  Colonel  I.  S.  Macaulay,  late  Professor  of 
Fortification  in  the  R.  M.  A.,  Woolwich.  Sixth  Edition,  crown 
8vo,  doth,  with  separate  Atlas  of  12  Plates,  izx.  complete. 

Field  Fortification. 

HANDBOOK  OF  FIELD  FORTIFICATION,  intended  for 
the  Guidance  of  Officers  preparing  for  Promotion,  and  especially 
adapted  to  the  requirements  of  Beginners.  By  Major  W.  W. 
Knollts,  F.R.G.S.,  93rd  Sutherland  Highlanders,  &c.  With 
163  Woodcuts.     Crown  8vo,  3j.  dd,  doth. 

fe-  Wares  and  Colours. 

THE  MANUAL  of  COLOURS  and  DYE- WARES :  their 
Properties,  Applications,  Valuation,  Impurities,  and  Sophistications. 
For  the  Use  of  Dyers,  Printers,  Dry  Salten,  Brokers,  &c.  By  J. 
W.  Slater.    Post  8vo,  7x.  6^/.,  cloth. 

"A  complete  encyclopaedia  of  die  materia  itMct^ria,  The  information  given 
respecting  each  articTe  is  full  and  precise,  and  the  methods  of  determinmg  the  value 
cf  articles  such  as  these,  so  liable  to  sopnistication,  are  given  with  clearness,  and  are 
pnurtical  as  well  as  valuable. ''—C^mku/  and  Druggitt. 

Storms. 

STORMS :  their  Nature,  Classification,  and  Laws,  with  the 
Means  of  Predicting  them  by  their  Embodiments,  the  Clouds. 
By  William  Blasius.  With  Coloured  Plates  and  numerous 
Wood  Engravings.     Crown  8vo,  lor.  dd,  cloth  boards. 


Dyi 


24  WORKS  IN  SCIENCE  AND  ART,  ETC., 

Light-H(ms€s. 

EUROPEAN  UGHT-HOUSE  SYSTEMS  ;  bdng  a  Report  of 
a  Tour  of  InspectioD  made  in  1S73.  By  Major  George  H. 
Elliot,  Corps  of  Engmcers,  U.S.A.  lUustiated  by  51  En- 
gravings and  31  Woodcnts  in  the  Text     8vo,  2ij.  doth. 

Electricity. 

A  MANUAL  of  ELECTRICITY ;  including  Galvanism,  Mag. 

netisni,  Diamagnetism,  Ekctro-Dynamic^  Magno-Elcctridty,  and 

the  Electnc  Telegraph.    By  Henry  M.  Noad^  Ph.D.,  F.C.S., 

Lectnrer  on  Chemistry  at  St.  George's  HospitaL     Fourth  Edition, 

entirdy  rewritten.    IHiistratcd  bj  500  Woodcnts.  8vo,  l/.  4/.  doth. 

^  Ihe  comacwfatinm  abvadT  bestowed  m  die  paces  of  the  LmmcH  oa  the  fonner 

•JifioB%  of  this  work  are  mote  than  evor  merited  by  the  pRsent.    The  aoconnta  Cifa 

of  tIeLtiiLitf  and  gaJTanism  are  not  only  complete  m  a  frif1ltH^•  senses  but,  vhia  »  a 


Text' Book  of  Electricity. 

THE  STUDENTS  TEXT-BOOK  OF  ELECTRICITY.  By 
Henry  M.  Noad,  Ph.D.,  Lectnrer  on  Chemistry  at  St  George's 
HospitaL  New  Edition,  revised  and  enlarged,  with  additions  on 
Tdegraphy,  the  Telephone,  Phonograph,  &c,  by  G.  E.  Preece, 
R;q.,  of  the  Telegraph  Department,  General  Post  Office,  London. 
Upwards  of  400  lllustnitions. 

\_Nearly  ready. 

Rudimentary  Magnetism. 

RUDIMENTARY  MAGNETISM :  being  a  concise  exposition 

of  the  general  principles  of  Magnetical  Science,  and  the  purposes 

to  which  it  has  been  applied.    By  Sir  W.  Snow  Harris,  F.R.S. 

New  and  enlarged  Edition,  with  considerable  additions  by  Dr. 

NoAD»  Ph.D.     With  i6j  Woodcnts.     i2mo,  doth,  4;.  6</. 

*'As  concise  and  ladd  an  expositian  of  the  phenomena  of  magnetism  as  we  believe 

it  is  possible  to  write.**— fxyr^uA  Meckanic. 

**  The  best  possible  manuai  oa  the  subject  of  maxBCtism.* — Mtckamict*  Magaxime. 

Chemical  AncUysis. 

THE  COMMERCIAL  HANDBOOK  of  CHEMICAL  ANA- 
LYSIS ;  or  Practical  Instructions  for  the  determination  of  the  In- 
trinsic or  Commercial  Value  of  Substances  used  in  Manuftictures^ 
in  Trades,  and  in  the  Arts.  By  K.  Normandy,  Author  of  *'  Prac- 
tical Introduction  to  Rosens  Chemistry,"  and  Editor  of  Rose's 
"  Treatise  on  Chemical  Analysis."  NewEditioH.  Enlaiged,  and 
to  a  great  extent  re-written,  by  Henry  M.  Noad,  Ph.  D.,  F.R.S. 
With  numerous  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo,  12s,  6d.  doth. 
'We  reooaunend  this  book  to  Che  carefol  pertual  of  eTery  one ;  it  11U17  be  tniiy 


•ttnaed  to  be  of  uoiversal  intereitt,  and  we  stroo|>lT  recommend  it  to  our  roMiers  as  a 
node,  afilte  tn<fiBMnsable  to  the  honsewife  as  to  the  phannaceutical  pfactitioiier.'*— 
MttUcmiTimut. 

"  Essential  to  the  analysts  appointed  onder  the  new  Act.  The  most  recent  resolts 
are  siven,  and  the  work  is  wdi  edited  and  carefiiny  writteik'* — Natnrr. 

Molhisca. 

A  MANUAL  OF  THE  MOLLUSCA ;  being  a  Treatise  on 
Recent  and  Fossil  Shells.  By  Dr.  S.  P.  Woodward,  A.L.S. 
With  Appendix  by  Ralph  Tate,  A.L.S.  F.G.S.  With  numer- 
ous Plates  and  300  Woodcuts.     3rd  Edition.  Cr.  8vo,  is.  fid.  doth. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.        25 

Clocks y  Watches y  and  Bells. 

RUDIMENTARY  TREATISE  on  CLOCKS,  and  WATCHES, 
and   BELLS.      By  Sir  Edmund  Beckett,  Bart,  (late  E.  B. 
Denison),  LL.D.,  Q.C.,  F.R.A.S.,  Author  of  **  Astronomy  with- 
out Mathematics,"  &c.      Sixth  edition,  thoroughly  revised  and 
enlarged,   with  numerous  Illustrations.      Limp  cloth  (No.   67, 
Weale's  Series),  4^.  6^.;  cloth  boards,  5^.  6^. 
'*  As  a  popular  and  practical  treatise  it  isunapproached." — Engluh  Mechanic. 
"The  Dest  work  on  the  subject  probably  extant.    The  treatise  on  bells  is  un- 
doubtedly the  best  in  the  language.     To  call  it  a  rudimentary  treatise  is  a  misnomer, 
at  least  as  respects  clocks  and  bdls.    It  is  the  most  important  work  of  its  kind  in 
English.** — Engineering. 

The  only  modem  treatise  on  clock-making." — Horoiogieal  youmal, 
"  This  admirable  treatise  on  clocks,  by  the  most  able  authority  on  such  a  subject, 
is  completely  perfect  of  its  kind."—  Standard. 

Gold  and  Gold-Working. 

THE  PRACTICAL  GOLD- WORKER;  or,  The  Goldsmith's 
and  Jeweller's  Instructor.  The  Art  of  Alloying,  Melting,  Re- 
ducing, Colouring,  Collecting  and  Refining.  The  processes  of 
Manipulation,  Recovery  of  Waste,  Chemical  and  Physical  Pro- 
perties of  Gold,  with  a  new  System  of  Mixing  its  Alloys  ;  Solders, 
Enamels,  and  other  useful  Rules  and  Recipes,  &c.  By  George 
E.  Gee.    Crown  8vo,  7^.  6e/.,  cloth.  \Ju5t  Publislud, 

"A  good,  sound,  technical  educator,  and  will  be  generally  accepted  as  an 
authority.  It  gives  full  particulars  for  mixing  alloys  and  enamels,  is  essentially  a  book 
for  the  workshop,  and  exactly  fulfils  the  i)urpose  intended." — Horoiogieal  Journal. 
"Thebest  work  yet  printed  on  its  subject  for  a  reasonable  price.  We  have  no 
doubt  that  it  will  speeduy  become  a  standard  book  which  few  will  care  to  be  with- 
out,"—^rtw/^  and  Metalworker. 

Silver  and  Silver  Working. 

THE  SILVERSMITH^S  HANDBOOK,  containing  full  In- 
structions for  the  Alloying  and  Working  of  Silver,  including  the 
different  modes  of  refining  and  melting  the  metal,  its  solders,  the 
|)reparation  of  imitation  alloys,  methods  of  manipulation,  preven- 
tion of  waste,  instructions  for  improving  and  finishing  the  surface 
of  the  work,  together  with  other  useful  information  and  memoranda*- 
By  George  E.  Gee,  Jeweller,  &c.  Crown  8vo,  with  numerous 
illustrations,  ^j.  6</.,  cloth.  \yust  Published, 

"  This  work  is  destined  to  take  up  as  good  a  position  in  technical  literature  as  the 
Practical  Cwoldworker^  a  book  which  has  passed  through  the  ordeal  of  critical  ex- 
amination and  business  tests  with  great  success."— y<r7(;^//fr  and  Metalworker. 

Science  and  Scripture. 

SCIENCE  ELUCIDATIVE  OF  SCRIPTURE,  AND  NOT 
ANTAGONISTIC  TO  IT ;  being  a  Series  of  Essays  on— i. 
Alleged  Discrepancies ;  2.  The  Theory  of  the  Geologists  and 
Figure  of  the  Earth  ;  3.  The  Mosaic  Cosmogony ;  4.  Miracles  in 
general — Views  of  Hume  and  Powell ;  5.  The  Miracle  of  Joshua — 
views  of  Dr.  Colenso :  The  Supematurally  Impossible ;  6.  The 
Age  of  the  Fixed  Stars — their  Distances  and  Masses,  By  Professor 
J.  R.  Young.    Fcap.  8vo,  5j.  cloth. 

*  *  Distinguished  by  the  true  spirit  of  scientific  inquiry,  by  great  knowledge,  by  keen 
logical  abifity,  and  by  a  style  peculiarly  clear,  easy,  ana  vxiVc^^iic!*-^Nonco9tformist. 

PrcLctical  Philosophy. 

A  SYNOPSIS  of  PRACTICAL  PHILOSOPHY.  By  Rev.  J. 
Carr,  M.A«,late  Fellow  of  Trin.  ColL,Camb.  andEd.i8mo,  51.  cL 


S6  WORKS  IN  SCIENCE  AND  ART,  ETC., 

DR.  LARDNER'S  POPULAR  WORKS. 
Dr.  Lardnef^s  Museum  of  Science  and  Art 

THE  MUSEUM  OF  SCIENCE  AND  ART.  Edited  bf 
DiONTSius  Lardnbr,  D.CL.,  fonnerly  Professor  of  NatnnI  Flu- 
losophy  and  Astronomy  in  University  College,  London.  With  up- 
wards  of  1 200  Engravings  on  Woiod.  In  6  Doable  Volnmei. 
Price  £\  II,,  in  a  new  and  d^ant  doth  binding,  or  handsomdy 
bound  in  half  morocco,  31/.  6a. 

"The  '  Musaim  of  Sdenoe  and  Art'  k  the  most  vahaaUe  oontribatioii  diat  has 
ever  been  made  to  the  Scientific  Instxuctioa  of  evoty  claas  of  sodety.**— tS«r  Dmvid 
Bmnster  in.  the  North  Briiixk  Review. 

'*  Whether  we  consider  the  liberality  and  beauty  of  the  iDustzatioos,  die  ch«rm  of 
the  writing,  or  the  durable  interest  of  the  matter,  we  must  express  our  belief  that 
there  is  hardly  to  be  found  among  the  new  books,  one  that  woiald  be  welcomed  by 
people  of  so  many  ages  and  damei  ais  a  valuable  j>inseaL''—£xaminer. 

\*  SeparaU  books  Jortiud  from  the  ahaoe^  smtable  for  Workmem^s 

Libraries^  Science  Classes^  6v. 

COMMON  THINGS  EXPLAINED.  Containing  Air,  Earth,  Fire, 
Water,  Time,  Man,  the  Eye,  Locomotion,  Colour,  Cloda  and 
Watches,  &c.     233  Illustrations,  doth  gilt,  5x. 

THE  MICROSCOPE.  Containing  Optical  Images,  Magnifyiiijg 
Glasses,  Origin  and  Description  of  tne  Microscope,  Microscopic 
Objects,  the  Solar  Microscope,  Microscopic  Drawing  and  Engrar- 
ing,  &C.     147  Illustrations,  doth  gilt,  2s, 

POPULAR  GEOLOGY.  Containing  Earthquakes  and  Volcanoes, 
the  Crust  of  the  Earth,  etc    201  Ulostrations,  doth  gilt,  2s,  6tL 

POPULAR  PHYSICS.  Containing  Magnitude  and  Minuteness,  the 
Atmosphere,  Meteoric  Stones,  Popular  Fallades,  Weather  Prog- 
nostics, the  Thermometer,  the  Barometer,  Sound,  &c.  85  Illus- 
trations, cloth  gilt,  2s,  6d, 

STEAM  AND  ITS  USES.  Including  the  Steam  Engine,  the  Lo- 
comotive, and  Steam  Navigation.     ^  Illustrations,  doth  gilt,  2s, 

POPULAR  ASTRONOMY.  Containing  How  to  Observe  the 
Heavens.  The  Earth,  Sun,  Moon,  I^anets.  Light,  Comets, 
Eclipses,  Astronomical  Influences,  &c.     182  Illustrations,  4J.  6d. 

THE  BEE  AND  WHITE  ANTS :  Their  Manners  and  Habits. 
With  Illustrations  of  Animal  Instinct  and  Intelligence.  135  Illus- 
trations, doth  gilt,  2r. 

THE  ELECTRIC  TELEGRAPH  POPULARISED.  To  render 
intelligible  to  all  who  can  Read,  irrespective  of  any  previous  Sden- 
tific  Acquirements,  the  various  forms  of  Telegraphy  in  Actual 
Operation.     100  Illustrations,  doth  gilt,  is,  6d, 

Scientific  Class-Books^  by  Dr.  Lardner. 

NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY  FOR  SCHOOLS.    By  Dr.  Lardnei. 
328  Illustrations.     Sixth  Edition.     I  vol  3X.  6d.  doth. 
*'  Convevs.  in  dear  and  jn^ecise  terms,  general  notions  of  all  the  principal  dhrisiaili 
of  Physical  Science." — Bniish  Quarterfy  Review. 

ANIMAL  PHYSIOLOGY  FOR  SCHOOLS.    By  Dr.  Lardner. 
With  IQO  Illustrations.    Second  Edition,     i  vol  y,  6d,  doth. 
"  Clearly  wntten, well  arranged,  and  excellently  illustrated.'*— C<vi^!nirrr'C'lyvMarAb 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.        a? 

DR.  LARDNER'S   SCIENTIFIC  WORKS. 
Astronomy. 

THE  HANDBOOK  OF  ASTRONOMY.    4th  Edition.    Edited 
by  Edwin  Dunkin,  F.R.S.,  Rl.  Observatory,  Greenwich.     With 
38  plates  and  upwards  of  loo  Woodcuts.     Cr.  8vo,  Qx.  6^.  cloth. 
"  Probably  no  other  book  contains  the  same  amount  of  information  in  10  com- 
pendious and  weU-arranged  a  iQxaL**—Aihetutum, 

Animal  Physics. 

THE   HANDBOOK   OF    ANIMAL    PHYSICS.     With   520 
Illustrations.    New  edition,  small  8vo,  cloth,  7j.  6^.  732  pages. 
"  We  have  no  hesitation  in  cordially  recommending  it." — Edttcai tonal  Times, 

Electric  Telegraph. 

THE   ELECTRIC  TELEGRAPH.     New  Edition.     ByE.  B. 
Bright,  F.R.A.S.     140  Illustrations.  Small  8vo,  2f.  6^.  cloth. 
"  One  of  the  most  readable  books  extant  on  the  Electric  Telegraph."— ^mv"*  Mtchanic, 

LARDNER'S  COURSE  OF  NATURAL  PHILOSOPHY. 
Mechanics. 

THE  HANDBOOK  OF  MECHANICS.     EnUrged  and  almost 
rewritten  by  Benjamin  Loewy,  F.R.A.S.    With  378  Illustra- 
tions.    Post  8vo,  6j.  cloth.  \.y^i  Published, 
"The  perspicuity  of  the  original  has  been    retained,     and  dupters  which  had 
become  obsolete,  nate  been  replaced  by  others  of  more  modem  character.     The 
explaaadotts  diroughout  are  studiously  popular,  and   care  has  been  taken  to  show 
the  application  of  the  various  branches  of  physics  to  the   industrial  arts,  and  to 
the  practical  business  of  life.*' — Mining  JoHnuU, 

Heat. 

THE  HANDBOOK  OF  HEAT.     Edited  and  almost  entirely 
Re-written  by  Ben'JAMIN  Lobwy,  F.R.A.S.  etc.     117  Illustra- 
tions.    Post  8vo,  dr.  cloth.  Vf^  Published. 
"  The  style  is  always  clear  and  precise,  and  conveys  instruction  without  leaving 
any  ck>udiness  or  lurking  doubts  \i«Aatkd.*''—Etigifu*nng, 

Hydrostatics  and  Pneumatics, 

THE  HANDBOOK  of  HYDROSTATICS  and  PNEUMATICS. 
New  Edition,   Revised  and  Enlarged   by  Benjamin    Loewy, 
F.R-A.S.  With  236  Illustrations.  Post  8vo,  5j.  cl. 
"  For  those  '  who  desire  to  attain  an  accurate  knowledge  of  phyacal  science  with* 
out  the  profound  methods  of  mathematical  investigadon,'  this  work  is  not  merely  in- 
tended, out  well  tidApttd.**— Chemical  Nnus, 

Electricity y  Magnetism,  and  Acoustics. 

THE  HANDBOOK  of  ELECTRICITY,  MAGNETISM,  and 

ACOUSTICS.    New  Edition.    Edited  by  Geo.  Carey  Foster, 

B.A.,  F.C.S.    With  400  Illustrations.     Post  8vo,  51.  cloth. 

"  The  book  could  not  have  been  entrusted  to  anjr  one  better  calculated  to  preserve 

the  terse  and  ludd  style  of  Lardner.  while  correcting  his  errors  and  bringing  up  his 

work  to  the  present  state  of  scientific  knowledge."— /'tf/w/or  Science  Review, 

Optics. 

THE  HANDBOOK  OF  OPTICS.     New  Edition.     Edited  by 
T.  Olver  Harding,  B.A.  298  Illustrations.  Post  8vo,  5r.  cloth. 
"  Written  by  one  of  the  ablest  English  scientific  writers,  beautifully  and  elaborately 
illustrated." — Mechanic's  Maganne. 

%*  The  above  5  Vols,  form  a  Complete  Course  of  Natural 

Philosophy. 


38  WORKS  IN  SCIENCE  AND  ART,  ETC., 

Pictures  and  Painters. 

THE  PICTURE  AMATEUR'S  HANDBOOK  AND  DIC- 
TIONARY OF  PAINTERS  :  being  a  Guide  for  Visitors  to 
Public  and  Private  Picture  Galleries,  and  for  Art-Students,  in- 
cluding an  explanation  of  the  various  methods  of  Painting ;  In- 
structions for  Cleaning;  Re-lining,  and  Restoring  Oil  Paintings ; 
A  Glossary  of  Terms;  an  Historicsu  Sketch  of  the  Principal  Schools 
of  Painting;  and  a  Dictionary  of  Painters,  giving  the  Cop3rists 
and  Imitators  of  each  Master.  By  Philippe  Daryl,  B.A.  Crown 
8vo,  y.  6</.,  cloth.  \Just  Published, 

"  Useful  as  bringing  together  in  a  compendious  form  an  almost  complete  bio> 
giaphical  stock  of  inforoution  req>ecting  the  psunters  of  the  world." — Mayfnir. 

"  The  bulk  of  the  book  is  occupied  bv  a  dictionary  of  painters  which,  consideriqg 
its  small  comi»sa,  is  really  admirable  ;  where  only  a  few  words  are  devoted  to  an  artist, 
his  qieciality  is  well  indicated  ;  and  the  utility  of  a  table  of  dates  of  painters  in  so 
portable  a  fonn  is  unquestionable.    We  oordiuly  reooromead  the  hook.  —SuUdrr. 

P^nilar  Work  an  Painting. 

PAINTING   POPULARLY   EXPLAINED;   with   Historical 

Sketches  of  the  Progress  of  the  Art    By  Thomas  John  Gullick, 

Painter,  and  John  Timbs,  F.S.A«     Fourth  Edition,  revised  and 

enlarged.    With  Frontispiece  and  Vignette.    In  small  8vq^  6f.  doth. 

V  ^AT  Work  has  been  adopted  as  a  PrtMe^ook  in  the  Schools  of 

Art  at  South  Kensington. 

"  Much  may  be  learned,  even  by  those  who  fancy  they  do  not  require  to  be  taught, 

from  the  careful  perusal  of  this  unpretendug  but  comprdiensive  treatise.* — Arty»mttnii. 

**  Contains  a  large  amount  of  original  matter,  agreeably  conveyed,  and  will  be  found  of 

value,  as  well  by  the  yonngartist  seeking  informatioa  as  by  the  general  reader.  "-^Bmtdfr, 

Grammar  of  Colouring. 

A  GRAMMAR  OF  COLOURING,  applied  to  Decorative 
Painting  and  the  Arts.  By  George  Field.  New  edition,  en- 
larged and  adapted  to  the  use  of  the  Ornamental  Painter  and 
D^igner,  by  Ellis  A.  Davidson.  With  new  Coloured  Diagrams 
and  numerous  Engravings  on  Wood.     l2mo,  Jf.  dd.  cloth  boards. 

"One  of  the  most  useful  of  student's  books,  and  probably  the  best  known  of  the 
few  we  have  on  the  subject"— -yfrrA«V^<:/. 

"  The  book  is  a  most  useful  rtsumf  of  the  properties  of  pigments."— i?«fZiSrr. 

Geology  and  Genesis  Harmonised. 

THE  TWIN  RECORDS  of  CREATION;  or.  Geology  and 
Genesis,  their  Perfect  Harmony  and  Wonderful  Concord.  By 
G.  W.  Victor  LeVaux.  With  numerous  Illus.   Fcap.  8vo,  5*.  cL 

"  We  can  reoomroend  Mr.  Le  Vauz  as  an  able  and  interesting  guide  to  a  popular 
appreciation  of  geological  science." — Sptctator, 

Geology^  Physical  and  Historical. 

A  CLASS-BOOK  of   GEOLOGY,    PHYSICAL    and    HIS- 
TORICAL.    With  more  than  250  Woodcuts.    By  Ralph  Tate, 
A.L.S.,  F.G.S.     i2mo,  5j.,  cloth  boards. 
"  The  fulness  of  the  matter  has  elevated  the  book  into  a  manual**— nS'^Aai/  Board 
ChrotucU. 

Wood'  Carving. 

INSTRUCTIONS  in  WOOD-CARVING,  for  Amateurs;  with 
Hints  on  Design.    By  A  Lady.     In  emblematic  wrapper,  hand- 
somely printed,  with  Ten  large  Plates,  2J.  6^. 
"The  handicraft  of  the  wood-carver,  so  well  as  a  book  can  impart  i^  may  be  leant 
fivm  '  A  Lady's '  publication."— ^M«M«a«iMr. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO.         39 

Delamott^s  Works  on  Illumination  &  Alphabets. 

A  PRIMER  OF  THE  ART  OF  ILLUMINATION ;  for  the 
nse  of  Begiimexs :  with  a  Rudimentary  Treatise  on  the  Art,  Prac- 
tical Directions  for  its  Exerdse,  and  numerous  Examples  taken 
from  ninminated  MSS.,  printed  in  Gold  and  Colours.  By  F.  Dela- 
MOTTB.     Small  4tOy  91.    Elegantly  bound,  cloth  antique. 

"A  bandy  book,  beautifully  illustnted ;  the  text  of  which  is  wdl  written,  and  cal- 
cnlalad  to  bie  uaefuL  .  .  .  The  examples  of  ancient  MSS.  recommended  to  the  student, 
which,  with  much  good  sense,  the  author  chooses  from  collections  accessible  to  all,  are 
■elected  with  judgment  and  knowledge,  as  well  as  taste."— ^/i«M«w*)«. 

ORNAMENTAL  ALPHABETS,  ANCIENT  and  MEDIAEVAL ; 
from  the  Eighth  Century,  with  Numerals  ;  including  Gothic, 
Church-Text,  large  and  small,  German,  Italian,  Arabesque,  Initials 
for  Illumination,  Monograms,  Crosses,  &c.  &c.,  for  the  use  of 
Architectural  and  Engmeering  Draughtsmen,  Missal  Painters, 
Masons,  Decorative  Painters,  Lithographers,  Engravers^  Carvers, 
&C.  &c.  &C.  Collected  and  engraved  by  F.  Delamotte,  and 
printed  in  Colours.    Royal  8vo,  oblong,  41.  doth. 

"A  well-known  eqgnver  and  draughtsman  has  enrolled  in  this  usefiil  book  die 
result  of  many  yeaus'  study  and  research.  Fer  those  who  insert  enamelled  sentences 
raond  gilded  chalices,  who  blazon  shop  legends  over  shop-doon,  who  letter  church 
walls  with  pithy  sentences  from  the  Deodogue,  this  book  wul  be  useful  "—vlMrainiiw. 

EXAMPLES  OF  MODERN  ALPHABETS,  PLAIN  and  ORNA- 
MENTAL ;  including  German,  Old  English,  Saxon,  Italic,  Per- 
sfiNective,  Greek,  Hebrew,  Court  Hand,  Engrossing,  Tuscan, 
Riband,  Gothic,  Rustic,  and  Arabesque;  with  seveml  Original 
Designs,  and  an  Analysis  of  the  Roman  and  Old  English  Alpha- 
bets, lax^  and  small,  and  Numerals,  for  the  use  of  Draughtsmen, 
Surveyors,  Masons,  Decorative  Painters,  Lithographers,  Engravers, 
Carvers,  &c.  Collected  and  engraved  by  F.  Delamotte,  and 
printed  in  Colours.    Royal  8vo,  oblong,  4J-.  cloth. 

"  To  artists  of  aU  classes,  but  more  especially  to  architects  and  engravers,  this  very 
handsome  book  will  be  invaltuble.  There  is  comprised  in  it  every  possible  shape  into 
which  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  and  numerals  can  be  formed,  and  the  talent  which 
has  been  expended  in  the  conception  of  the  vanous  plain  and  ornamental  letbBs  is 
wondofiiL'*— vS'/zMM^oniL 

MEDIiEVAL  ALPHABETS  AND  INITIALS  FOR  ILLUMI- 
NATORS. By  F.  Delamotte,  Illuminator,  Designer,  and 
Engraver  on  Wood.  Containing  21  Plates,  and  Illuminated  Title, 
printed  in  Gold  and  Colours.  With  an  Introduction  by  J.  Willis 
Brooks.    Small  4to,  6f.  doth  gilt 


•• 


'  A  volume  in  which  the  letters  of  the  alphabet  come  forth  glorified  in  gilding  and 
an  the  colours  of  the  prism  interwoven  and  intertwined  and  mtermingled,  sometimes 
with  a  sort  of  rainbow  arabesque.  A  poem  emblazoned  in  these  characters  would  be 
only  comparable  to  one  of  those  delicious  love  letters  symbolised  in  a  bundi  of  flowers 
weU  selected  and  cleverly  arranged."— >S'«ii». 

THE  EMBROIDERER'S  BOOK  OF  DESIGN ;  containing  Initials, 
Emblems,  Cyphers,  Monograms,  Ornamental  Borders,  Ecclesias- 
tical Devices,  Mediaeval  and  Modem  Alphabets,  and  National 
Emblems.  Collected  and  engraved  by  F.  Delamotte,  and 
printed  in  Colours.    Oblong  ro^  8vo,  2j,  6</.  in  ornamental  boards. 


30  WORKS  ON  AGiaCULTURE,  ETC, 

AGRICULTURE,  &c  ' 

Youatt  and  Bunis  Complete  Grazier. 

THE  COMPLETE  GRAZIER,  and  FARMER'S  and  CATTLE- 

BREEDER'S  ASSISTANT.     A  Compendium  of  Hnsbandiy. 

Bj  W11.LIAM  Youatt,  Esq.,  V.S.      12th  Edition,  enlai^ged  bjr 

Robert  Scott  Burn,  Author  of  "The  Lessons  of  My  Fann,"  &c. 

One  lai]ge  Svo  volume,  860  pp.  with  244  Illustrations,  i/.  ix.  hailf-bd. 
*•  Tlie  tfanduil  and  Cezt-book,  with  the  fiumer  and  gruder.  "-^^amwrTs  Mrngmnme. 
"A  treadae  whkJa  will  remain  a  standazd  work  on  the  subject  as  \aog  as  Britisfa 
agriculture  endures." — Mark  Latu  Ex^rtst. 

Spaoner  an  Sheep, 

SHEEP;  THE  HISTORY,  STRUCTURE,  ECONOMY, 
AND  DISEASES  OF.  By  W.  C.  Spooner,  M.R.V.C.,  &c 
Third  Edition,  considerably  enlai^ged  ;  with  numerous  fine  engra- 
Tings,  induding  some  specimens -of  New  and  Improved  Breeds. 
Fcp.  8vo,  366  pp.^  6x.  doth. 

"  Tbe  book  is  decidedly  the  best  of  the  kind  in  oar  language" — Scotsman, 
'*  Mr.  Spoooer  has  conferred  upon  the  agricultural  dass  a  lasting  benefit  by  era- 
bodying  in  this  woric  the  improvements  made  in  sheep  stock    c^  such  men  as 
Humphreys,  Rawlence,  Howani,  and  odiers." — Hasapskax  Advertiser, 
'"Ine  work  should  be  in  pmwfssion  of  erery  flock-nuuter." — Banbury 


Scott  Bunis  System  of  Modem  Farming. 

OUTLINES  OF  MODERN  FARMING.  By  R.  Scott  Burn. 
Soils,  Manures,  and  Crops — ^Farming  and  Farming  Economy — 
Cattle,  Sheep,  and  Horses — Management  of  the  Dauy,  Pigs>  and 
Poultry  —Utilisation  of  Town-Sewage,  Irrigation,  &c.  New  Edition. 
In  I  voL  1250  pp.,  half-hound,  profusely  illustrated,  I2f. 
"There  is  suflidaiC  stated  within  the  limits  of  this  treatise  to  prevent  a  fiuner 
Ihun  going  £sr  wrong  in  any  of  his  operations."— O/iarrtvr. 

Good  Gardening. 

A  PLAIN  GUIDE  TO  GOOD  GARDENING ;  or,  How  to 
Grow  Vegetables,  Fruits,  and  Flowers.  With  Practical  Notes  on 
Soils,  Manures,  Seeds,  Planting,  Laying-out  of  Gardens  and 
Grounds,  &c.  By  S.  Wood.  Second  Edition,  with  considerable 
Additions,  &c.,  and  numerous  Illustrations.  Cr.  8vo,  5/.,  cloth. 
**  A  very  good  book,  and  <me  to  be  highly  reconunended  as  a  practical  guide. 
The  practicau  directions  are  excellcnL" — Athetueum. 

"  A  thoroughly  useful  guiddwok  for  the  amateur  gardener  who  may  want  to  make 
his  plot  of  land  not  merely  pretty,  but  uaeful,and  prratable.**— /)a<^  Telegraph, 

Profitable  Gardening. 

MULTUM-INPARVO  GARDENING;  or.  How  to  make  One 
Acre  of  Land  produce  jf  620  a  year,  by  the  Cultivation  of  Fruits 
and  Vegetables ;  also.  How  to  Grow  Flowers  in  Three  Glass 
Houses,  so  as  to  realise  £vj(i  per  annum  clear  Profit.  By  Samuel 
Wood,  Author  of  **  Good  Gardening,"  &c  2nd  Edition,  revised. 
With  Wood  Engravings.  Cr.  8vo,  2J.,  cloth.  [7im/  PtMishtd. 
"  We  are  bound  to  recommend  it  as  not  only  suited  to  the  case  of  the  amateur  and 
gentleman's  gardener,  but  to  the  market  grower." — Gardener  s  Magaaine. 

Norton's  Underwood  and  Woodland  Tables. 

TABLES  F'OR  PLANTING  and  Valuing  Underwood  and  Wood- 
land. By  R.  HORTON.  i2mo.,  zs,  bound. 


PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO,         3I 

- i^ ^ ■  — — ^ — . 

Donaldson  and  Burns  Suburban  Farming. 

SUBURBAN  FARMING.  A  Treatise  on  the  Laving  Out  and 
Cultivation  of  "iFanns,  adapted  to  the  produce  of  Milk,  Butter  and 
Cheese,  Eggs,  Poultry,  and  Pigs.  By  the  late  Professor  John 
Donaldson.  With  considerable  Additions,  Illustrating  the  more 
Modem  Practice  by  Robert  Scott  Burn.  With  numerous 
Illustrations.     Crown  8vo,  6j.,  cloth.  [7«J'  Published, 

"An  admirable  treadse  on  all  matters  connected  with  the  layiug-out  and  cultivation 
of  dairy  farms." — Live  Stock  JoHrttal, 

Ewart's  Land  Improvet^s  Pocket-Book. 

THE  LAND  IMPROVER'S  POCKET-BOOK  OF  FOR- 
MULAE, TABLES,  and  MEMORANDA,  required  in  any  Com- 
putation relating  to  the  Permanent  Improvement  of  Landed  Pro- 
perty. By  John  EwART,  Land  Surveyor  and  Agricultural  Engineer. 
Koyal  32mo,  oblong,  leather,  gilt  edges,  with  elastic  band,  4J. 

"Admirably  calculated  to  serve  its  purpose." — Scotsman, 

*'  A  compendious  and  bandy  little  volume." — Spectator, 

Hudson's  Tables  for  Land  Valuers. 

THE  LAND  VALUER'S  BEST  ASSISTANT:  being  Tables, 
on  a  very  much  improved  Plan,  for  Calculating  the  Value  of 
Estates.  With  Tables  for  reducing  Scotch,  Irish,  and  Provincial 
Customary  Acres  to  Statute  Measure  ;  also.  Tables  of  Square  Mea- 
sure, and  of  the  Dimensions  of  an  Acre  by  which  the  Contents 
of  any  Plot  of  Ground  may  be  ascertained  without  the  expense  of 
a  r^[ular  Survey;  &c  By  R.  Hudson,  C.E.  New  Edition, 
royal  32mo,  oblong,  leather,  gilt  edges,  with  elastic  band,  4^. 
"Of  incalcubiDle  value  to  country  gentlemen  and  professional  men.  ^-^Farmn'syoumal, 

Complete  Agricultural  Surveyor's  Pocket-Book. 

THE  LAND  VALUER'S  AND  LAND  IMPROVER'S  COM- 
PLETE POCKET-BOOK ;  consisting  of  the  above  two  works 
bound  together,  leather,  gilt  edges,  with  strap,  ^s.  6d, 

^^  Tfu  abcve  forms  an  ufuqtuUled  and  most  compendious  Pocket 

Vade-mecum  for  the  Land  Agent  and  Agricultural  Engineer. 

"  We  consider  HudM>n's  book  to  be  the  best  ready-reckoner  on  matters  relating  to 

the  valuation  of  land  and  crops  we  have  ever  seen,  and  its  combination  wil^  Mr. 

Ewart's  work  greatly  enhances  the  value  and  usefulness  of  the  latter-mentioned  .  . 

It  is  most  usefiu  as  a  manual  fen:  xetennct**-^ North  0/  England  Farmer. 

The  Management  of  Estates. 

LANDED  ESTATES  MANAGEMENT:  Treating  of  the 
Varieties  of  Lands,  Peculiarities  of  its  Farms,  Methods  of  Fanning, 
the  Setting-out  of  Farms  and  their  Fields,  Construction  of  Roads, 
Fences,  Gates,  and  Farm  Buildings,  of  Waste  or  Unproductive 
Lands,  Irrigation,  Drainage,  Plantation,  &c.  By  R.  Scott  Burn, 
Fcp.  8vo.  numerous  Illustrations,  y,  6d, 

Scott  Bum's  Introdtution  to  Farming. 

THE  LESSONS  of  MY  FARM  :  a  Book  for  Amateur  Agricul- 
turists,  being  an  Introduction  to  Farm  Practice,  in  the  Culture  of 
Crops,  the  Feeding  of  Cattle,  Management  of  the  Daury,  Poultry, 
Pigs,  &c.  By  R,  ScOTT  BURN.  With  numerous  lUus.  Fcp.  6/.  d. 
*' A  complete  introduction  to  the  whole  round  of  farming  practice."— yMw  BnU. 


33    tVORKS  PUBLISHED  BY  CROSBY  LOCKWOOD  &  CO. 

"A   Complete  Epitome  of  the  Laws  of  this 
Country. ^^ 

EVERY  MAN'S  OWN  LAWYER ;  a  Handy-Book  of  the  Prin- 
ciples of  Law  and  Equity.  By  A  Barrister.  15th  Edition, 
Revised  to  the  end  of  last  Session.  Including  a  Summary  of  the 
Judicature  Acts,  and  the  principal  Acts  of  the  past  Session,  viz. 
— Tlie  Canal  Boats'  Act,  The  Destructive  Insects'  (or  Colorado 
Beetle)  Act,  The  Fisheries'  (Oyster,  Crab,  and  Lobster)  Act,  and 
the  Fisheries'  (Dynamite)  Act,  &c.,  &c.  With  Notes  and 
References  to  the  Authorities.  Crown  8vo,  price  6f.  &^  (saved  at 
every  consultation),  strongly  bound. 

COMPRISING  THE  LAWS  OF 
BAKKaypTCY— Bills  of  Excmancb— Contkacts  and  AcRBamirrs— Goivkigrt 

— DOWKR  AND  DiVOKCB— ElBCTIONS  AND  REGISTRATION — InSURANCB— LlBBL 

AND  Slandbs—Mortgagbs-Sbttlbmbnts- Stock  Exchangb  Practicb— 
TsADB  Marks  and  Patbnts— Trbspass,  Nuisancbs,  btc— Transfbb  or 
Land,  btc— Warranty— Wills  and  Aorbbmbnts,  btc    Also  Law  for 


Landlord  and  Tenant— Master  and  Servant— Workmen  and  Apprentioet— Hdn, 
Devisees,  and  Legatees — Husbandand  Wife— Executors  and  Trustees — Guardian 
and  Ward — Married  Women  and  Infants — Partners  and  Agents — Lender  and 
Borrower — Debtor  suid  Creditor— Purdiaser  and  Vendor — Companies  and  Aso- 
ciations"-FriendIy  Societies — Qergymen,  Churchwardens — Medical  FtactitiaDers, 
&c. — Bankers— Farmers— Contractors — Stock  and  Share  Brokers — Sportsmen 
and  Gamekeepers — Farriers  and  Horse-Dealers — ^Auctioneers,  House-Aaenta— 
Innkeepers,  &c. — Pawnbrokers — Surveyors — Railways  and  Carriers,  ftc  &C. 
"  No  Englishman  ought  to  be  without  this  book." — E$tgmeer. 
"  What  it  professes  to  be— a  complete  epitome  of  the  laws  of  this  country,  thoroqghly 

intelligible  to  non-professional  reaaers."— JSr/Tj  Lt^, 

Auctioneer's  Assistant. 

THE  APPRAISER,  AUCTIONEER,  BROKER,  HOUSE 
AND  ESTATE  AGENT,  AND  VALUER'S  POCKET  AS- 
SISTANT, for  the  Valuation  for  Purchase,  Sale,  or  Renewal  of 
Leases,  Annuities,  and  Reversions,  and  of  property  generally; 
with  Prices  for  Inventories,  &c.  By  John  Wheeler,  'N^ner,  &c. 
Fourth  Edition,  enlarged,  by  C  No&Ris.  Royal  32mo,  doth,  Cr. 
"  A  neat  and  concise  book  of  reference,  containing  an  admirable  and  dearly- 

arranged  list  of  prices  for  inventories,  and  a  very  practical  guide  to  determine  the 

value  of  furniture,  &c."^-Si<uuianL 

Pawnbrokers  Legal  Guide. 

THE  PAWNBROKER'S,  FACTOR'S,  and  MERCHANT'S 
GUIDE  to  the  LAW  of  LOANS  and  PLEDGES.  By  H.  C. 
FoLKARD,  Esq.,  Barrister-at-Law,  Author  of  the  **  Law  of  Slander 
and  Libel,"  &c.  With  Additions  and  Corrections  to  1876.  izmo^ 
cloth  boards,  3^.  6t/. 

House  Property. 

HANDBOOK  OF  HOUSE  PROPERTV  :  a  Popular  and  Prac- 
tical  Guide  to  the  Purchase,  Mortgage,  Tenancy,  and  Compulsory 
Sale  of  Houses  and  Land ;  including  the  Law  of  Dilapidations  and 
Fixtures ;  with  Explanations  and  Examples  of  all  kinds  of  Valua- 
tions, and  useful  Information  and  Advice  on  Building.  By  Edward 
Lance  Tarbuck,  Architect  and  Surveyor.  i2mo,  51.  cloth  boards* 

"We  are  glad  to  be  able  to  recommend  it." — Builder^ 
"  The  advice  is  thoroughly  practical." — Lam  JoumaL 

Bradbury,  A^new  ft  Co.,  Fiinten,  WhitefiriarSi  Loa  on. 


r 


