WILSONS 

MEAT 
COOKERY 


WILSONS 

MEAT 
COOKERY 


ELEANOR  LEE  WRIGHT 

Director 

Domestic  Science  Department 
Wilson  &  Co. 


©  1919  Wilson  &  Co. 


«$ 


INDEX 

Page 

Foreword 3 

Food  Value  of  Meat     4 

Government  Inspection  and  Refrigeration     5 

Marketing 6 

Meat  Economy 7 

Selection  of  Meat  Cuts 8 

Care  of  Fresh  Meats « 9 

Principles  of  Meat  Cookery 10 

Cheaper  Cuts  Made  Palatable 1 1 

Cooking  by  Ear — Fuel  Economy 12 

Successful  Seasoning 13 

Sauce  and  Gravy 14 

Utensils  Desirable  Aids  in  Meat  Cookery 15 

A  Bit  of  Thrift 16 

Care  of  Cooked  Meats 17 

Oleomargarine 18 

Whole  Chuck       19 

Shank 20 

Plate — Brisket  End .  ■ 21 

Navel  End  of  Plate 22 

Ribs 23 

Flank  Steak — Flank 24 

Sirloin  Cuts 25 

Broiling         26 

The  Rump , 27 

Round  Steak — Round  Pot  Roast 28 

Boneless  Cuts 29 

Miscellaneous  Beef  Recipes        30 

Recipes  for  By-Products 31 

Meat  Chart — Beef  Cuts 32,  33 

Recipes  for  Left-Overs     34 

Mutton  and  Lamb  Cuts— Diagram  of  Carcass   35 

Selection  of  Mutton 36 

Lamb  and  Mutton  Cuts 37 

Mutton  Recipes 38 

Cuts  of  Pork — Diagram  of  Side  39 

Pork  Cuts 40 

Pork  Recipes 41 

Ham  Recipes 42 

Sliced  Bacon 43 

Vegetables  Served  with  Meats 44,  45 

Carving 46 

Helpful  Hints 47,  48 

Index  to  Recipes 49 

Memo  50,  61,  62,  63 

The  Wilson  Label   51 

Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Pork  and  Beans 52 

Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Peas 53 

Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Ham  and  Bacon 54 

Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Pineapple 55 

Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Preserves 56 

Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Condiments     57 

Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Coffee 58 

The  Wilson  Label  Protects  Your  Table 59 

The  Wilson  Guarantee       60 

Coupons 64 

JUN   16  I9!9    ©CU525879 


2  'V^O    J 


FOREWORD 

FOOD  products  must  always  be  bought  with  economy  and  utilized 
with  care.     We  have  prepared  this  book  in  the  hope  that  it 
will  help  the  women  of  America  to  purchase  and  use  food 
products  carefully  and  wisely. 

Wilson's  Meat  Cookery  illustrates  in  a  simple,  practical  manner 
the  different  cuts  of  meat,  and  tells  in  everyday  language  the  most 
economical  and  appetizing  methods  of  preparing  them  for  the 
table. 

The  cheaper  cuts  of  meat  heretofore  have  been  neglected;  pos- 
sibly because  people  considered  them  not  good  enough,  or  did  not 
realize  their  high  nutritive  value. 

The  suggestions  here  presented  will  be  new  to  many  a  modern 
housewife,  yet  our  grandmothers  used  these  inexpensive  cuts  and 
relied  upon  them  for  some  of  their  best  dishes. 

The  average  grade  of  live  stock  today  is  much  superior  to  that 
of  ten  or  fifteen  years  ago.  Consequently,  when  we  use  the  cheaper 
cuts  of  meat,  we  have  the  advantage  of  this  betterment  in  quality. 

For  example,  in  considering  meats,  we  naturally  think  of  the 
loin  and  ribs.  These  constitute  only  a  part  of  the  meat  available 
in  the  animal.  It  is  obvious  that  if  all  the  available  meat  is  used 
properly,  the  total  supply  of  meats  will  increase  in  proportion,  and 
the  average  price  will  be  lowered  correspondingly. 

The  charts  and  illustrations  show  you  just  how  the  cuts  of  meat 
look  and  tell  you  exactly  what  portions  to  ask  for.  They  also  show 
you  the  large  percentage  of  excellent  meat  that  is  not  being  utilized 
by  the  average  family. 

You  can  only  take  full  advantage  of  this  knowledge  by  doing 
your  marketing  in  person.  You  must  select  your  own  meats  if 
you  expect  high  quality  at  a  reasonable  price. 

Our  recipes  tell  you  in  detail  the  best  way  to  prepare  these  cuts 
for  the  table.  We  have  compiled  this  book  along  practical  lines. 
We  want  it  to  be  useful  and  helpful  to  those  who  have  to  make 
every  penny  count — to  the  family  of  moderate  means — and  to 
the  more  prosperous  as  well.  So  that  you  will  save  money  and 
have  better  food,  study  this  book  and  accept  its  suggestions  in  the 
spirit  in  which  they  are  given. 


President 


u3hU>  maAk.  llYIIVTliKjTrefll   u-mjJb  auaJvourdusje?' 


6j?ooq)  Value 

^Meat 


■  The    V/ilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table  1 


MEAT  is  most  important  in  our  daily  living.  It  is  the  staple 
food  in  the  countries  that  show  the  greatest  enterprise  and 
energy.  Eminent  authorities  all  agree  on  the  desirability 
of  some  meat  as  an  article  of  diet.  Meat  is  almost  completely 
digested  by  a  normal  person,  is  always  available,  easy  to  prepare, 
and  tastes  good.  The  savory  odors  that  arise  in  the  cooking  of 
meat  arouse  pleasant  anticipation. 

The  consumption  of  meat  in  this  country  is  larger  than  that  in 
any  other  nation;  meat  is  cheaper  here  and  of  a  better  quality. 
We  have  been  prosperous  and  use  meat  freely,  often  wastefully. 
Conditions  demand  that  this  waste  be  stopped;  we  are  not  asked 
to  omit  meat,  but  to  use  it  intelligently.  Economy  means  wise 
use,  not  denial. 

The  food  value  of  meat  is  principally  for  the  tissue-building 
material  called  protein.  Then,  too,  it  is  valuable  for  the  fat  which 
is  present,  for  fat  gives  the  body  both  heat  and  working  energy. 
The  protein  also  gives  muscular  power  which  makes  it  essentially 
the  diet  of  those  who  do  work  out  of  doors  and  those  who  do  hard 
manual  labor.  Mineral  substances  are  present  in  small  quantities. 
They  aid  in  body  growth  and  development. 

Very  young  and  very  old  people  require  little  meat;  and  it  is 
required  only  in  moderation  by  anyone.  Amounts  vary  with  indi- 
vidual conditions,  occupations  and  habits.  People  who  are  under- 
nourished lack  resistance  to  ward  off  disease — those  in  prime  health 
have  the  greater  resistance.  Meat  has  a  higher  food  value  than 
most  vegetables. 

Wise  buying,  careful  preparation  and  sensible  serving  are  neces- 
sary to  take  full  advantage  of  this  opportunity.  Health  must  be 
conserved,  bodies  nourished,  needs  gratified  and  tastes  pleased;  all 
at  a  minimum  cost. 

Many  prejudices  must  be  discarded  by  loyal  people — that  all 
foods  may  be  utilized.  Nature  demands  a  certain  balance;  a  lack 
in  one  element  must  be  made  up  by  another.  When  the  meat 
supply  is  scant,  the  increased  use  of  butter  is  immediate — indicat- 
ing a  doubtful  economy.  We  pay  a  good  price  for  meat,  eggs  and 
milk,  but  get  full  value  for  our  money.  No  other  foods  repair 
bodily  waste  so  perfectly.  The  digestibility  of  meat  depends  some- 
what upon  texture  and  fat,  as  well  as  upon  the  cooking,  but  the 
actual  difference  between  various  meats  is  slight.  Meat  is  the 
most  satisfying  food  that  we  place  upon  our  table. 


aahiAma^  nvjiH-nr 


uauft*  cuLOLfta/nAee" 


6o\)erjimeni7nspection 
andftefrigeratioii 


■  The    Vfilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


GOVERNMENT  inspection  is  a  tremendous  factor  in  the  pro- 
duction of  meat.  The  breeder  knows  that  his  cattle  must 
undergo  a  most  rigid  examination  by  a  number  of  government 
experts.  These  experts  must  be  graduated  veterinaries  and  pass  a 
rigid  civil  service  examination  before  they  are  admitted  to  the 
Government  Inspection  Bureau.  These  men  are  on  hand  to  detect 
any  indication  of  unsound  meat  before,  during  and  after  the  stock 
is  slaughtered.  Our  greatest  insurance  against  unwholesome  meat 
is  the  stamp  of  Government  Approval,  and  only  meat  which  bears 
this  guarantee  should  be  purchased.  Immediate  chilling  follows  the 
killing  of  the  animal  and  the  meat  is  kept  from  five  to  ten  days  in  a 
sanitary  cooler  to  render  its  condition  perfect.  The  meat  is  then 
ready  for  the  refrigerator  of  the  retail  butcher,  where  it  hangs  until 
placed  on  the  block. 

Frozen  meat  is  perfectly  wholesome,  and  may  be  used  with 
safety  by  any  one,  provided  it  is  used  at  once.  Meat  when  thawed 
out  spoils  very  quickly,  so  that  the  cooking  should  be  started  as 
soon  as  the  thawing  is  done.  People  eat  frozen  fish  half  of  the  year, 
and  yet  many  have  an  idea  that  frozen  meat  is  undesirable. 

The  Government  stamp  assures  us  that  the  meat  is  from  healthy 
stock,  but  it  cannot  go  further  and  point  out  why  one  animal  is 
finer  than  another — since,  while  all  the  meat  is  good,  some  is  better. 
Meat  should  be  heavy  for  its  bulk,  solid  and  firm.  The  bones  of 
young  animals  are  spongy  and  those  of  mature  stock  solid.  Uncut 
beef  is  a  deep  red  color ;  it  turns  brighter  after  it  is  cut  and  exposed 
to  the  air.  The  color  of  the  fat  may  come  from  breed  and  feed,  as 
well  as  from  maturity — a  creamy,  waxy  fat  is  preferable  to  a  yellow, 
oily  one;  but  fat  there  must  be  to  indicate  proper  feeding. 

The  refrigerator  car  has  solved  a  great  problem  in  getting  fresh 
meat  to  all  parts  of  the  world.  First  the  meat  is  chilled  for  forty- 
eight  hours  in  order  to  eliminate  all  animal  heat.  The  meat  is 
shipped  in  cars  which  hold  enough  ice  to  last  twenty-four  hours. 
There  are  icing  stations  at  division  points  every  1 50  to  250  miles. 
Fast  train  schedules  are  arranged  so  that  not  more  than  twenty-four 
hours  elapse  between  the  icings.  Each  refrigerator  car  is  thoroughly 
cleaned  twenty-four  to  forty-eight  hours  before  time  to  load. 

All  of  these  things  have  been  worked  out  on  a  scientific  scale 
so  that  the  product  reaching  the  ultimate  consumer  will  be  in  the 
best  possible  condition.  This  care  and  selection  are  steps  which 
the  housewife  can  help  to  control  by  her  demand  for  inspected  and 
well  cared  for  meat,  another  factor  in  economy. 


DhiJb  maAk, 


Wilson  &  Co. 


VV 


acnxK  aujvwrdze? 


■  ■ 


{Marketing 


■  The    V/ilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


SATISFACTORY  marketing  can  only  be  done  in  person.  The 
order  boy  and  the  telephone  are  convenient  at  times,  but  do 
not  prove  economical  in  daily  use.  Some  planning  should  be 
done  before  going  to  market,  but  it  may  be  desirable,  when  one  sees 
what  the  retailer  has  in  stock,  to  change  these  plans.  Sensible 
women  patronize  reliable  dealers  and  do  not  hunt  for  food  bargains, 
which  often  are  actually  unsafe.  A  clean  market  means  wholesome 
food  and  an  insurance  against  doctor  bills.  Upon  the  choice  of  meat 
depends  the  choice  of  vegetables  for  the  same  meal,  so  that  the 
butcher  should  be  visited  first.  We  must  not  mistake  cheapness  for 
economy.  Solid  meat  at  30  cents  a  pound  is  cheaper  than  half  bone 
and  half  fat  at  20  cents.  Soup  or  stew  needs  bone  for  flavor  —  a 
pot  roast  may  be  boneless. 

We  need  variety  in  our  diet,  but  this  variety  should  be  obtained 
by  having  a  different  menu  each  day  rather  than  a  large  number 
of  dishes  at  any  one  meal.  The  old  fashioned  idea  of  a  table  laden 
with  all  kinds  of  food  is  not  considered  good  form  today — since 
it  leads  to  overeating,  which  is  not  only  harmful,  but  forms  a 
waste  of  food.  The  good  housekeeper  takes  "just  enough"  for  her 
motto.  She  is  neither  extravagant  nor  stingy  and  well  cleared  dishes 
at  the  end  of  a  meal  are  an  indication  of  her  careful  planning.  She 
has  few  left-overs,  but  those  which  she  has,  are  carefully  used  at 
future  meals. 

It  is  often  desirable  to  cook  enough  of  a  certain  food  for  two 
meals  at  one  time,  but  it  should  not  all  be  placed  on  the  table  at 
the  first  meal — as  then  no  one  is  tempted  to  overeat  and  there  is 
no  hint  of  future  service.  The  amount  of  foods  necessary  may  not 
be  calculated  exactly  at  first — but  experience  will  soon  teach  the 
housewife  how  to  figure  the  correct  amount  required.  Appetites  are 
often  made  fickle  by  frequent  repetition,  careless  cooking  or  a 
poor  combination  of  different  foods.     (See  pages  44  and  45.) 

Some  attention  must  be  -given  to  fuel  economy  in  planning  a 
meal.  The  cook  who  uses  the  oven  for  one  dish  and  the  top  burners 
for  several  others  at  the  same  time  shows  poor  judgment;  her  oven 
should  be  used  at  full  capacity  whenever  possible.  A  list  of  standard 
dishes  that  the  family  likes  is  a  convenience,  although  no  set  of 
menus,  however  helpful,  can  be  exactly  followed,  as  tastes  and 
personal  choice  differ.  In  time  of  unusual  conditions,  however,  we 
should  all  try  to  eat  the  foods  that  are  available. 

Intelligent  marketing,  careful  preparation,  skilful  cookery  and 
judicious  service  are  tasks  worthy  of  any  woman. 


**3hiJb  maJtk.  I 


%      A      # 


Wilson  &  Co. 


▼"▼ 


llouA*  au£iA£urcb&e 


The   Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


TRUE  economy  consists  in  knowing  che  nature  of  the  various 
cuts  of  meat  as  to  their  proportion  of  fat,  lean,  bone  and  waste. 
If  we  eliminate  fat,  the  edible  meats  vary  little  in  their  food 
value;  the  loins  and  ribs,  which  form  about  one-fourth  of  the  weight 
of  the  cattle,  represent  nearly  one-half  the  retail  cost.  The  rational 
way  to  equalize  the  market  is  to  use  all  of  the  meat,  but  the  demand 
for  center  cuts  of  quality  has  so  increased  that  the  lower  priced 
parts  are  sadly  neglected.  Yet  experience  in  making  soups  shows 
that  a  greater  amount  of  extract  and  flavoring  matter  is  found  in 
these  cheaper  portions. 

Many  will  be  glad  of  these  suggestions  that  cut  down  the  cost 
of  meats  and  supply  nourishing  dishes  at  the  same  time: 

(1)  Take  advantage  of  varying  market  conditions. 

(2)  Purchasing  large  amounts  of  meat,  provided  one  has  space 
and  equipment  for  keeping  it. 

(3)  Occasionally  substituting  fish,  game  or  whatever  similar 
food  may  be  less  expensive  in  the  community. 

(4)  Utilization  of  left-overs. 

(5)  Careful  use  of  meat,  bone,  fat  and  trimmings. 

(6)  Use  of  less  expensive  cuts. 

(7)  Careful  serving  at  the  table. 

(8)  Careful  preparation. 

The  last  two  items  mentioned  snould  receive  no  small  amount 
of  consideration.  Of  course  the  first  step  in  economy  is  the  wise 
selection  of  meat  which  is  handled  and  marketed  in  a  sanitary  way, 
but,  no  matter  whether  the  cut  is  cheap  or  expensive,  it  must  be 
well  cooked  in  order  to  utilize  it  to  the  best  advantage. 

If  meat  is  not  well  prepared  it  is  very  likely  to  be  wasted  at  the 
table.  Such  circumstances  would  make  it  of  greater  advantage  to 
use  canned  meats  and  their  products,  for  they  are  wholesome,  appe- 
tizing and  palatable.  The  quantity  of  meat  usually  eaten  by  each 
member  of  the  family  should  be  considered  not  only  when  the  pur- 
chasing is  done  but  also  in  the  serving.  Table  waste  can  thus  be 
eliminated.  The  dignity  of  the  family  is  far  from  lessened  when 
these  points  of  economy  are  seriously  regarded. 


3YvJb  moAk. 


^     A     # 


Wilson  &  Co. 


¥    V 


r^r0*0^*" 


cPelection 
Meat  Cuts 


■  The   Wiiso/i    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


THE  cook,  to  use  cheaper  meats  to  the  best  advantage,  must 
know  how  to  utilize  all  the  fat.  The  home  rendering  of  excess 
fats  and  those  remaining  from  cooked  meat,  cut  down  the  need 
for  commercial  fats  and  oils.  The  clarifying  of  used  fats  greatly 
increases  their  use. 

Large  bones  should  be  cracked  before  cooking  to  get  all  possible 
flavor,  gelatine  and  marrow  out  of  them ;  this  necessitates  straining 
the  liquid  after  the  cooking  is  completed,  so  as  to  avoid  all  bits  of 
bone.  Meat  trimmings  should  be  used  with  the  bones  to  prevent 
waste.     In  fact,  every  part  should  be  utilized. 

The  housewife  should  take  advantage  of  the  fact  that  tenderness, 
appearance,  and  convenience  in  cooking,  rather  than  actual  food 
value,  largely  determine  retail  prices.  The  facts  are  that  the  cheaper 
cuts  of  meat  are  by  far  the  most  economical  from  every  standpoint. 
She  can  get  the  most  for  her  money  by  purchasing  cheaper  cuts  and 
serving  tender  ones  through  skilful  methods  of  cooking.  Either 
money  cost  or  considerable  labor  must  be  put  into  food  materials  to 
produce  perfect  results,  so  that  she  who  has  more  time  than  money 
finds  it  pays  to  spend  time  in  her  kitchen.  Statistics  show  that  over 
30  per  cent  of  the  average  modest  income  is  spent  for  food,  and  these 
figures  do  not  take  into  account  any  allowance  for  fuel  or  labor. 
This  indicates  the  large  amount  of  responsibility  that  rests  upon 
the  shoulders  of  the  housewife. 

The  prudent  buyer  considers  the  following  points  in  choosing 
meats : 

(1)  Quality,  which  includes  color,  grain  and  fat. 

(2)  Method  of  cooking,  which  includes  flavor,  fuel  and  time. 

(3)  Number  to  be  served;  also  whether  all  the  meat  is  to  be 
used  at  one  meal  or  part  reserved  for  a  second  serving :  the  possible 
use  of  left-overs. 

(4)  The  cost,  which  means  not  only  the  initial  outlay  but  the 
total  cost  of  fuel,  time  and  additional  material. 

It  is  a  common  belief  that  the  cheaper  cuts  use  enough  more  fuel 
to  make  the  final  expense  equal.  But  this  is  usually  untrue  if  the 
heat  is  properly  regulated.  Ten  minutes'  broiling  of  chops  at  a  high 
temperature  costs  more  than  four  hours'  simmering  of  a  tougher  cut. 
Another  popular,  but  mistaken,  idea  is  that  the  shrinkage,  due  to 
long  cooking,  greatly  exceeds  that  of  short  cooking.  When  cooked 
in  the  right  way,  there  is  little  difference  and  no  loss  in  flavor  if  the 
liquid  and  the  meat  are  combined. 


M, #_ 


OhJUb  maAk. 


[Wilson  &  Co.| 


uoWi  Qaanjcuntcje" 


Carp 

of 

Sresh  ^Moats 


m  The   V/ilson    Label   Protects    Your  Table 


WHEN  meat  is  brought  into   the  kitchen,  either  by  the  de- 
livery boy  or  by  the  housekeeper  herself  on  her  return  from 
market,  the  wrapping  should  first  be  removed  and  the  meat 
weighed  to  check  up  the  household  accounts. 

Buy  a  pair  of  good  scales ;  keep  them  in  a  handy  place  for  in- 
coming supplies  and  use  them.  First  weigh  the  plate  or  dish  in 
which  the  meat  is  usually  placed;  then  weigh  the  meat  itself  and 
deduct  the  weight  of  the  dish.  Trim  off  any  portion  of  the  meat 
that  looks  unsound,  or  has  a  particle  of  odor.  Divide  the  meat  into 
the  proper  amount,  if  only  a  portion  of  it  is  to  be  cooked  that  day. 
Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth,  or  scrape  the  surface  of  the  meat  with  a 
knife  or  scrub  with  a  brush,  but  avoid  washing  it  unless  necessary, 
for  juices  are  lost  when  meat  is  placed  in  water.  When  washing 
is  essential,  it  should  be  done  quickly  and  the  meat  wiped  dry. 
Place  the  meat  on  a  plate  or  other  suitable  container  and  put  it  in 
a  cool  place  (but  never  on  ice)  until  ready  to  use. 

Meat  kept  for  some  hours  should  be  well  covered.  Almost  any 
clean  utensil  may  be  used;  either  of  crockery,  aluminum  or  enamel 
ware;  but  iron  and  tin  will  rust,  cracked  plates  absorb  odors  and 
chipped  granite  is  unsafe.  The  common  custom  of  using  any  old 
dish  for  the  pantry  and  the  refrigerator  is  neither  sanitary  nor  eco- 
nomical. Careless  cooks  put  meat  away  without  removing  the  paper 
in  which  it  is  wrapped  and  then  wonder  why  the  flavor  is  impaired 
and  juices  are  lacking  with  the  result  that  the  butcher  gets  the 
blame  for  faults  which  lie  nearer  home. 

It  sometimes  happens,  that  owing  to  a  change  of  plans,  the  meat 
purchased  for  use  today  must  be  kept  over  until  tomorrow.  If  refri- 
geration is  good,  a  day's  delay  will  cause  no  harm,  but  the  use  of  a 
marinade  is  a  wise  precaution,  especially  since  both  beef  and  mutton 
are  really  improved  by  it. 

The  marinade  may  be  prepared  by  modifying  French  Dressing. 
Blend  a  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  with  two  or  three  table- 
spoons of  oil  (olive,  corn  or  peanut  oil  may  be  used)  and  adding  a 
light  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper.  If  desired,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf  or 
onion  may  also  be  added,  but  if  this  is  done,  the  meat  should  be 
tightly  covered  if  placed  afterwards  in  a  refrigerator. 

The  meat  is  placed  in  an  earthen  dish  and  thoroughly  coated 
with  this  marinade  and  turned  occasionally  to  distribute  the  coating 
evenly.  The  amount  of  dressing  necessary  is  determined  by  the 
quantity  of  meat  with  which  it  is  to  be  used.  The  oil  enriches  the 
the  meat,  the  acid  makes  it  tender  and  the  combination  protects  the 
surface  from  the  air  and  aids  in  preserving  it.  A  good  steak  is  made 
better  and  poor  meat  more  palatable  by  this  process. 


OhiJb  maAk. 


A # 


Wilson  &  Co. 


V    V 


ucwv  au£i/va/n±£e 


Principles 
Moat  Cookery 


m  The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


WE  cook  meat  for  one  of  two  purposes:    either  for  the  meat 
itself  or  for  soups.     A  combination  of  the  two  methods  is 
possible  in  a  stew  or  casserole  dish  where  meat  and  liquid  are 
served  together. 

Different  methods  of  cooking  meat  depend  largely  upon  the  meat 
itself.  Tough  fibres  require  an  entirely  different  treatment  from 
tender  meat,  but  in  every  case  the  first  consideration  is  to  retain  the 
juices. 

The  larger  the  surface  of  the  meat  the  more  the  juices  are  likely 
to  be  drawn  out;  that  is  why  we  cut  meat  into  pieces  for  soup.  The 
protein  of  meat  is  partly  soluble  in  cold  water  and  as  we  wish  to 
secure  as  much  of  it  as  possible  in  the  making  of  good  soup,  cold 
water  is  used.  The  meat  should  be  allowed  to  stand  in  the  cold 
water  before  heating  until  the  liquid  becomes  red  and  then  slow  heat 
applied  to  still  further  draw  out  the  juices.  Tough  meat  and  poor 
soup  is  the  result  of  rapid  cooking  which  hardens  the  albumin  and 
retains  the  juices  in  the  meat  instead  of  allowing  them  to  escape. 

A  tender  cut  should  be  cooked  at  a  much  higher  temperature 
than  tougher  pieces  and  the  method  employed  in  cooking  any  par- 
ticular piece  of  meat  depends  upon  its  quality  and  the  cut.  A  proper 
understanding  of  muscular  fibre  is  therefore  necessary  in  selecting 
meat.  It  is  quite  possible  to  roast  or  broil  a  piece  of  meat  that  is 
hung  a  little  too  long,  but  meat  for  stewing  must  be  fresh  and  sweet. 

If  cost  is  not  an  object,  the  ribs  and  loins  furnish  flavor  and  nu- 
triment together  with  meat  in  its  most  tender  form.  If  we  desire  to 
retain  the  juices  in  the  meat,  we  must  apply  strong  heat  to  harden  the 
surface.  This  heat  may  be  applied  in  several  ways:  (1)  By  the 
direct  heat  of  broiling  over  a  flame;  (2)  by  radiated  heat  in  a  hot 
oven,  contact  with  hot  fat  or  a  heated  utensil;  or  (3)  by  immersion 
in  boiling  water. 

The  result  of  intense  dry  heat  differs  entirely  from  that  of  moist 
heat.  A  caramel-like  flavor  is  developed  under  dry  heat  at  a  much 
higher  temperature  than  the  boiling  point  of  water.  It  is  this  special 
flavor  that  makes  the  pot  roast  richer  than  the  boiled  meat  and 
gives  steak  the  fine  taste  that  is  lacking  in  a  stew. 

The  flavor  of  meat  is  much  improved  if  it  is  browned  before  boil- 
ing; this  crisping  or  browning  may  include  all  or  only  a  portion  of  the 
surface.  To  make  a  savory  broth  put  part  of  the  meat  in  cold  water 
and  heat  slowly  as  in  soup  making ;  then  add  the  brown  parts  for  addi- 
tional richness  and  simmer  the  whole  until  tender.  If  meat  does  not 
have  sufficient  fat  to  crisp  in  the  hot  pan  by  itself,  additional  fat 
must  be  added. 


3hifo  moJik. 


a     A     # 


Wilson  &  Co. 


^~V 


uouA  au/i/vami&e 


10 


■  II 


Cheaper  cuts 


m  The   'Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


THE  juices  evaporate  quickly  in  cooking  unless  the  meat  is  pro- 
tected by  the  fat.    Brown  meat  well  but  avoid  scorching  if  you 
value  your  digestion  and  your  reputation  as  a  cook.     Boiling 
liquid  surrounding  a  piece  of  meat  holds  in  the  original  flavoring 
matter,  but  does  not  impart  the  additional  flavor  obtained  by  dry 
heat. 

The  whole  process  of  preparing  the  cheaper  cuts  demands  time, 
care  and  attention  to  detail. 

Certain  cuts  are  best  adapted  to  certain  dishes  only  and  some  cuts 
are  adapted  to  various  dishes ;  but  the  same  general  principle  under- 
lies the  preparation  of  them  all. 

We  soften  cheaper  cuts  by  several  different  processes  in  order  to 
make  them  more  palatable: 

(1)  Long,  slow  cooking  (the  most  important  way). 

(2)  Chopping  or  grinding,  to  separate  the  fibres. 

(3)  Pounding,  to  break  the  fibres. 

(4)  The  use  of  acids,  such  as  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. . 

(5)  Freezing  or  hanging  the  meat  in  a  low  temperature  (Cold 
Storage) ;  this  develops  acids  which  soften  the  meat  without  injuring  it. 

Opportunity  for  variety  lies  in  adapting  these  methods  to  the 
various  cuts.  Principles  are  far  more  important  than  formulas, 
since  the  inexperienced  woman  needs  a  recipe  for  every  dish,  while  the 
careless  will  turn  out  a  poor  product  with  the  best  recipe.  No  given 
rule  will  always  work  out  perfectly  for  ingredients  differ  in  composition 
and  quantity  and  conditions  vary.  Consequently,  the  methods  of 
preparation  are  more  important  than  individual  recipes. 

Cold  storage,  under  proper  conditions,  is  a  great  boon  to  the 
consumer.  It  keeps  clean  food  clean  at  a  temperature  at  which 
deterioration  is  impossible.  If  it  were  not  for  modern  cold  storage, 
the  market  would  be  flooded  with  needful  foods  at  one  season  and 
without  them  at  another.  The  average  person  has  no  conception 
of  the  wonderful  value  of  the  present  system  of  cold  storage  which 
modern  scientific  knowledge  has  developed.  The  waste  of  food 
products  would  be  appalling,  if  there  were  no  way  of  keeping 
them  at  a  continued  low  temperature. 

Chicago  is  the  largest  food  distributing  centre  in  the  world  and 
consequently  has  the  largest  cold  storage  plants. 


OhiJb  maAk. 


%      A      # 


Wilson  &  Co. 


uovJu  aiLano/ntee 


li 


Cooking  by  Ear 
Fuel  Economy 


m  The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


IT  IS  a  wise  precaution  to  avoid  a  draft  upon  a  kettle  over  a  slow 
fire.    For  this  reason  the  back  burner  is  a  sensible  choice.    In  a 
slow  oven  the  flame  is  not  exposed  and  once  the  burner  is  ad- 
justed, the  meat  may  be  left  in  peace;  there  is  no  need  for  watchful 
waiting. 

Repeated  experiments  in  slow  cooking  with  a  tightly  covered 
utensil  show  that  the  amount  of  fuel  used  is  amazingly  small.  In 
fact,  it  is  possible  to  keep  liquid  at  the  simmering  point  for  any 
length  of  time  desired  without  attention  with  a  consumption  of 
less  than  two  feet  of  gas  per  hour. 

Other  fuels  show  that  comparative  cost  is  always  in  favor  of 
slow  cooking.  Oil  and  gasoline  burners  cannot  be  maintained  at  as 
low  a  point  as  gas  and  the  protection  of  an  asbestos  mat  or  thick 
iron  plate  is  therefore  advised  to  temper  the  heat. 

Wood  and  coal  are  harder  to  regulate  for  any  extended  period, 
and  the  results  will  never  be  the  same  if  the  meat  boils  hard  part  of 
the  time  and  stops  cooking  entirely  at  other  intervals.  Steady  con- 
tinuous heat  is  essential  for  the  best  results. 

Fireless  cookers  serve  admirably  for  this  type  of  cooking  and 
some  of  the  latest  devices  in  gas  and  electric  ovens  provide  a  fireless 
cooker  arrangement  that  is  almost  human  in  its  regulation. 

Too  much  emphasis  cannot  be  laid  upon  the  slow  cooking  method. 
Some  cooks  think  nothing  is  accomplished  without  a  "good  fire" — 
the  kettle  boils  merrily  but  the  spirits  of  the  family  are  sad,  as  good 
food  has  been  wasted  by  being  cooked  too  fast. 

The  toughest  piece  of  meat  can  be  made  palatable  if  it  is  cooked 
right.  The  cooking  may  take  a  long  time,  but  when  the  meat  is 
done  properly,  it  will  be  tender  enough  to  cut  with  a  fork  and  yet 
compact  when  served. 

Additional  flavors  are  helpful,  close-covered  kettles  are  desirable, 
ample  time  is  essential;  but  the  chief  necessity  is  to  cook  slowly. 
The  temperature  that  allows  no  breaking  of  the  liquid  into  bubbles, 
but  just  a  gentle  rippling  of  the  surface,  will  eventually  soften  the 
hardest  tissue.  There  is  a  foreign  saying — "The  pot  should  only 
smile,  not  laugh,"  that  sums  up  the  whole  matter.  If  one  cannot 
smell  the  cooking  or  see  the  steam  from  the  kettle,  she  may  listen 
closely  to  satisfy  her  curiosity.  A  slight  sound  of  bubbling  is  all 
that  is  needed  to  convince  her  that  the  good  work  is  going  on. 

Any  woman  can  cook  by  ear  and  when  she  knows  that  all  is 
well,  she  may  leave  her  cooking  for  hours  if  need  be,  based  on  the 
knowledge  that  with  such  a  low  fire  food  cannot  burn,  for  it  cannot 
cook  dry. 


JhJLb  mahA. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


^r~w 


uoWv  aujjhxhrdut£ 


12 


Successful 
Seasoning 


The   Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


WE  have  few  meats  but  many  flavors — consequently,  by 
combining  different  spices  and  herbs  one  cut  of  meat  has 
many  variations.  Ordinary  meats  are  improved  by  good 
seasoning  and  fine  ones  made  finer.  Several  materials  in  small 
amounts  give  better  results  than  an  excess  of  any  one.  Too  much 
flavoring  will  ruin  the  food;  just  enough  makes  a  common  dish  a 
success.  In  a  well  stocked  pantry  we  find  thyme,  summer  savory, 
marjoram,  mace,  cloves,  sage,  peppercorns,  paprika,  celery  salt, 
bay  leaves  and  nutmeg. 

Vegetables  of  all  sorts  should  be  utilized.  The  ends  of  tomatoes 
or  carrots,  or  the  coarse  stalks  of  celery  furnish  flavor  without 
added  cost.  Onion  is  almost  indispensable  in  the  cooking  of  meat, 
but  when  onion  is  prohibited  our  next  best  flavor  is  celery.  The 
leaves,  root,  or  outer  stalks  are  chosen  and  the  better  part  of  the 
celery  saved  for  separate  service.  Onion  juice  is  often  preferred 
to  the  onion  itself.  Clean  parings  and  unsightly  bits  of  any  veg- 
etable may  be  utilized  to  prevent  waste  and  improve  taste. 

Garlic  often  arouses  prejudice,  but  it  has  a  wonderful  flavor 
when  carefully  used.  The  least  bit  is  all  that  is  needed.  Dried 
mushrooms  are  often  substituted  for  fresh  ones.  The  cost  per 
pound  is  high,  but  only  a  small  amount  is  needed  when  they  are 
soaked  and  cooked. 

Beef  extract  should  be  in  every  kitchen — not  only  for  warmed 
over  meat  which  needs  more  meat  taste,  but  also  to  enrich  soups 
and  sauces. 

For  vegetable  seasoning  we  depend  upon  the  onion  family, 
shallot,  leek,  scallions,  chives  and  garlic;  upon  peppers,  both  green 
and  red,  and  upon  tomatoes,  carrots,  turnips,  parsley  and  celery 
as  well. 

Special  dishes  call  for  mustard,  chili  powder,  curry  powder, 
capers,  ginger,  horseradish,  tomato  paste,  catsup,  mushrooms, 
raisins  and  vinegar  of  various  kinds. 

Brown  sugar  will  correct  a  dish,  if  it  is  too  salty,  but  it  is  hard 
to  remedy  food  that  burns. 

Different  fats  may  be  used  in  browning  meat,  such  as  the  fat 
from  ham,  bacon,  salt  pork  or  roast  beef.  These  fats  which  give 
variety  to  the  flavor  are  carefully  saved  by  the  thrifty  cook. 

Squares  of  coarse  cheesecloth  or  white  mosquito  netting  are 
handy  for  tying  up  seasonings,  so  that  they  can  be  removed  before 
the  cooking  is  finished,  and  are  particularly  desirable  for  removing 
vegetables  that  would  spoil  the  flavor  of  the  meat  if  cooked  too 
long  with  it. 


3KU>  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


V"V 


ucu/b  auruia/niee" 


13 


■  The   Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


THE  natural  juices  which  flow  from  the  roast  or  steak  when 
carved  are  true  gravies,  but  custom  has  applied  the  term 
"gravy"  to  the  thickened  liquid  which  is  properly  known 
as  the  sauce.  Care  in  making  these  sauces  results  in  a  smooth 
pleasing  combination,  thoroughly  cooked,  well  seasoned  and  served 
piping  hot.  Half  cooked,  lumpy,  flavorless  sauces  or  gravies  are 
unwholesome  and  wasteful. 

In  cooking  meat,  we  utilize  the  fat  of  the  meat  itself  to  enrich 
the  gravy,  while  in  made  dishes,  beef  drippings  or  beef  fat,  or  bacon 
drippings,  are  used.  Use  meat  fat  when  dishes  are  warmed  over. 
Any  one  of  the  following  ingredients — wheat,  rice,  or  corn  flour, 
corn  starch,  arrowroot,  or  bread  crumbs — may  be  used  to  thicken 
the  gravy. 

Blend  in  a  shallow  saucepan  in  the  proportion  of  two  level 
tablespoons  of  flour  and  two  tablespoons  of  fat  to  a  cup  of  liquid. 
The  liquid  should  be  added  gradually  and  the  mixture  stirred  con- 
stantly as  it  cooks.  The  preparation  takes  a  little  longer  when  the 
liquid  is  cold;  but  the  sauce  is  more  certain  to  be  smooth.  The 
mixture  should  be  stirred  with  a  fork  as  it  thickens,  as  the  use  of 
a  fork,  instead  of  a  spoon,  will  prevent  lumps. 

If  it  is  not  desirable  to  cook  the  flour  in  the  fat,  or  inconvenient 
to  skim  the  fat  from  the  stock,  the  thickening  ingredients  may  be 
carefully  mixed  with  cold  water  and  stirred  into  the  liquid.  The 
liquid  should  be  taken  off*  the  fire  when  the  mixture  is  stirred  in, 
as  this  will  avoid  too  rapid  cooking  and  uneven  results.  After  the 
thickening  is  added,  replace  the  dish  on  the  fire  and  stir  as  it  cooks. 

A  third  method  is  to  mix  the  softened  fat  and  flour  smoothly 
in  a  bowl,  blend  with  a  little  of  the  liquid,  add  to  the  stock  and  cook 
until  the  gravy  thickens. 

If  a  rich  brown  sauce  is  required,  the  meat  fat  is  first  well  browned 
in  a  heavy  pan,  then  flour  is  added.  The  whole  is  browned  care- 
fully, and  the  liquid  poured  in  gradually.  It  is  necessary  to  use  a 
little  more  flour  in  this  method,  as  browned  flour  does  not  thicken 
as  much  as  ordinary  flour. 

If  there  is  no  stock  on  hand,  a  substitute  can  be  made  by  cooking 
bits  of  vegetables  in  water,  and  seasoning  with  beef  extract.  Fresh 
or  evaporated  milk  may  be  substituted  for  the  stock  in  some  meat 
dishes. 

Thickened  gravies  which  boil  for  some  time  are  apt  to  separate 
and  the  fat  comes  to  the  surface.  This  fact  is  utilized  in  making 
gravy  for  people  with  poor  digestions  since  the  fat  can  be  entirely 
removed  before  serving.  If  gravy  accidentally  boils  and  separates, 
add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  stir  vigorously,  and  it  will  be 
restored  to  its  former  smooth  consistency. 


JhiJb  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


-c» sasr 


acvJi  auahjO/ritee 


14 


(Utensils 

(Desirable  aids  in 
JHaat  Cookery 


The    'Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 

MANY  choice  pieces  of  meat  are  spoiled  by  cooking  in  un- 
suitable utensils;  consequently  the  butcher  sometimes  gets 
the  blame  when  the  trouble  is  in  the  kitchen.  Kettles  that 
are  too  large,  waste  fuel.  Kettles  should  have  close  fitting  covers 
and  flat  bottoms  broader  than  the  flame  under  them.  The  shape 
of  the  kettle  should  depend  upon  the  kind  of  fuel  available,  and  its 
size  upon  the  use  to  which  it  is  to  be  put.  Aluminum  is  easy  to 
clean,  holds  heat,  and  is  always  safe.  The  lack  of  seams  in  aluminum 
cooking  utensils  is  an  advantage. 

Iron  also  holds  the  heat,  and  is  very  satisfactory.  A  heavy 
frying  pan  should  be  part  of  the  equipment  of  every  kitchen.  A 
revival  of  old  customs  is  shown  in  the  "Dutch  Oven"  or  the  iron 
kettle  with  an  iron  cover. 

Enamelware,  unless  of  good  quality,  is  not  desirable.  Food 
has  a  tendency  to  stick  to  it,  and  cheap  enamelware  chips  easily. 
High  grade  tinware  is  a  better  investment  than  cheap  granite  ware. 
Copper  and  nickel  are  too  expensive  for  the  average  kitchen  and 
need  great  care  in  their  use. 

Earthenware,  in  the  form  of  a  casserole,  is  deservedly  popular. 
It  can  be  used  for  many  dishes,  holds  heat  well,  is  easy  to  clean  and 
does  double  duty  as  a  cooking  and  serving  dish.  The  regulation 
dish,  glazed  inside  and  out,  is  suitable  only  for  use  in  the  oven;  but 
the  brown  or  red  clay  dish  which  is  dull  on  the  outside  can  be  used 
on  top  as  well  as  inside  the  range.  This  is  a  great  help  in  fuel 
economy.  With  the  protection  of  an  asbestos  mat,  such  a  dish 
may  be  used  over  a  low  flame  for  hours  with  perfect  results  both 
in  flavor  and  food  value. 

The  tireless  cooker  is  adaptable  to  slow  cooking  of  all  sorts. 
It  saves  time  and  attention  during  the  process,  but  requires  an 
earlier  start. 

Portable  ovens  of  various  kinds  save  fuel  and  do  away  with 
extreme  heat  in  the  kitchen  in  summer;  the  flavor  of  baking  is  far 
better  than  when  foods  are  cooked  directly  over  the  fire,  as  the 
whole  surface  is  equally  heated.  Covered  roasters  are  well  adapted 
for  braising,  and  for  preparing  similar  dishes. 

In  addition  to  these  various  dishes,  a  cook  requires  good  knives 
and  a  knife  sharpener,  a  meat  grinder,  a  heavy  cutting  board,  wire 
rack  or  trivet,  skimmers,  wooden  spoon,  strong  meat  fork,  quart 
measure,  basting  spoon,  coarse  and  fine  strainer.  Reliable  scales 
are  a  sensible  investment,  and  a  set  of  steel  skewers  has  many  uses. 


OhJub  TruaAk 


Wilson  &  Co. 


W     V 


uorun*  ouafvamJbee 


15 


II  ■ 


tSTRit 

°f 

thrift 


u  The   'Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table  ■ 


THIS  story  of  a  piece  of  brisket  beef  illustrates  the  possibilities 
of  inexpensive  meat.  The  amounts  given  are  for  a  small  family, 
but  may  be  readily  increased  for  a  large  one.  Let  us  say  that 
a  generous  three-pound  piece  of  brisket  beef  costs  60  cents,  and 
it  may  be  cut  so  as  to  give  almost  two  pounds  for  serving  whole,  and 
the  remainder,  cut  up  and  cooked  with  a  quart  of  cold  water  and 
various  seasonings,  will  make  a  good  soup. 

The  piece  of  meat  to  be  used  in  soup  making  should  be  cooked 
in  a  tightly  covered  kettle,  with  a  low  flame  for  about  five  hours. 
The  fuel  cost  will  be  a  little  over  a  cent,  and  there  will  be  no  loss 
of  liquid.  The  meat  and  fat  are  then  removed  from  the  bone  and 
separated  while  still  warm — then  set  aside  to  cool. 

The  broth  will  make  the  foundation  of  a  fine  vegetable  soup, 
or  the  popular  onion  soup  with  cheese.  For  the  latter,  the  onions 
are  sliced  thin  and  cooked  in  a  small  amount  of  water,  or  no  liquid 
at  all.  They  should  be  cooked  with  a  tight  cover,  over  a  low  fire. 
Slices  of  bread  are  toasted,  covered  with  cheese  and  put  into  the 
oven,  or  under  the  flame,  to  melt  the  cheese.  The  onions  and  the 
broth  are  put  into  deep  soup  dishes,  with  a  slice  of  the  cheese  toast 
on  each  one,  and  the  result  is  a  delectable  dish,  which  will  be  eaten 
with  relish  by  the  whole  family. 

The  meat  remaining  from  the  first  meal  and  the  soup  meat  can 
be  chopped  together  and  used  as  hash,  meat  balls,  or  in  any  other 
way  preferred.  Served  with  a  little  gravy,  they  will  furnish  the 
main  part  of  another  meal. 

All  pieces  of  fat  should  be  put  into  a  covered  kettle  with  a  little 
water  and  cooked  until  the  bits  are  crisp  and  the  fat  clear.  The 
cooking  should  be  watched  to  avoid  scorching.  When  the  cooking 
is  complete,  put  through  a  fine  strainer,  and  the  result  is  a  cup  of 
rendered  fat,  and  a  cup  full  of  fat  scraps  for  future  cooking.  ■  These 
scraps,  when  salted,  will  make  a  fine  sandwich  filling,  or  can  be 
added  to  gravy  for  baked  or  boiled  potatoes. 

Thus  the  three  pounds  of  brisket  beef,  yield  one  meal  of  fresh 
meat,  one  hearty  soup  for  the  main  part  of  a  dinner,  one  reheated 
meat  dish,  one  service  of  fat  scraps,  and  one  cup  of  rendered  fat. 
While  considerable  labor  is  involved,  yet  the  cost  of  this  meat  has 
been  very  low.  How  many  women  are  willing  to  give  the  time  and 
thought  to  these  simple  but  important  economies?  Each  one  must 
answer  for  herself.  Every  housewife  who  will  make  the  effort  can 
accomplish  such  a  saving,  and  every  little  bit  helps. 


3kU>  moAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


▼~^r 


uo-uA  au^ja/nlee 


16 


Ccltq  of 

CookodJ/lcats 


*  The   Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table  'i 


WHENEVER  possible,  the  bone  and  the  fat  should  be  sep- 
arated from  left-over  meat  as  soon  as  the  meal  is  finished, 
as  this  can  be  done  easier  and  better  while  the  food  is  still 
warm.  Roasted  or  boiled  meat  may  have  bone,  which  still  contains 
value,  and  this  bone  can  be  cooked,  together  with  the  parts  that 
cling  to  it  and  with  other  trimmings,  a  second  time,  for  stock.  The 
meat  should  be  put  in  some  utensil  that  prevents  it  from  drying  out. 
Containers,  of  either  enamel  or  red  clay,  are  good — since  they  are 
unbreakable  and  useful  for  reheating.  Plates  or  shallow  dishes 
are  a  poor  choice.  The  meat  should  be  packed  solid,  covered  with 
the  stock,  if  any  is  available,  and  then  put  away  as  soon  as  possible 
to  cool. 

Cooked  meat  should  be  used  up  as  quickly  as  possible  in  hot 
damp  weather;  dry  heat  is  not  so  hard  on  food  materials. 

Salted  and  smoked  meats  keep  better  than  fresh  meats,  and  for 
this  reason  are  often  chosen  for  slicing  cold  in  summer.  Jellied 
meats  should  not  be  kept  over  24  hours  in  hot  weather  or  two  days 
in  cold  as  they  offer  a  fine  field  for  bacteria. 

A  serious  handicap  to  economy  in  the  use  of  meat  is  the  unrea- 
sonable prejudice  against  reheated  meat. 

Flavor  and  fat  are  often  lacking,  to  be  sure,  but  food  values 
remain;  consequently  in  preparing  dishes  for  cooked  meat,  it  is 
well  to  add  other  seasonings,  and  enrich  the  dish  with  fat  in  some 
such  form  as  sauces.  By  cutting  meat  small  or  chopping  it  up, 
the  portions  are  more  easily  heated  and  the  flavors  better  distributed. 
So  far  as  possible  the  flavor  in  the  second  service  should  be  quite 
different  from  that  of  the  original  service. 

Continued  heat  and  high  temperature  should  both  be  avoided, 
as  they  toughen  meat  and  make  digestion  difficult.  With  these 
facts  in  mind,  it  is  possible  to  prepare  a  variety  of  excellent  dishes 
from  cooked  meat,  and  several  kinds  of  meat  can  often  be  used  to 
advantage  at  one  time.  It  is  an  error  to  warm  over  a  choice  steak 
— if  good  at  first,  it  will  be  good  cold,  or  sliced  in  thin  strips  for 
luncheon  or  supper.     Reheating  steak  spoils  its  fine  flavor. 

The  various  steamed  dishes  may  be  substituted  for  those  to  whom 
fried  foods  are  forbidden,  and  hash  is  undesirable.  They  are  con- 
venient when  it  is  impractical  to  use  the  oven.  Turned  out  of  a 
mold  and  covered  with  a  good  sauce,  they  are  attractive  and  pala- 
table. No  thoughtful  woman  will  serve  the  same  meat  at  two  suc- 
cessive meals.  Under  favorable  conditions  (cold  weather,  Or  with 
a  good  refrigerator)  she  may  even  avoid  repetition  the  next  day. 
A  meatless  dinner — fish  or  fowl — may  be  used  in  between  times  to 
afford  variety. 


OhJUb  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


V    T 


uoWi  auASva/ntee' 


17 


The   V/ilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


THE  importance  of  fat  in  the  diet  is  not  generally  recognized; 
but  a  moderate  use  of  it  is  always  necessary.  Fat  may  be  in 
the  form  of  cream,  milk,  oil,  butter  or  oleomargarine,  or  in 
the  form  of  the  fat  of  meat.  The  worker  must  have  fat  to  do  his 
work;  the  child  must  have  fat  for  proper  development;  and  all 
must  have  it  for  bodily  need  and  for  bodily  energy.  No  sensible 
mother  restricts  the  use  of  butter  or  oleomargarine  as  a  spread  for 
children's  bread.  Winter  calls  for  additional  fats  in  our  food  to 
keep  warmth  in  our  bodies.  The  poor  in  pocket  are  often  poor 
in  health  for  lack  of  sufficient  fats.  Good  butter  is  high,  cheap 
butter  is  unpalatable,  and  under  these  conditions,  little  butter  is 
used. 

The  clean,  wholesome  article  known  as  Margarine  or  Oleomar- 
garine is  little  understood.  Ignorance  has  classed  it  with  renovated 
butter  and  the  prejudice  against  it  is  not  confined  to  those  who  lack 
education. 

The  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  Oleomargarine,  made  by  a  reputa- 
ble firm  and  sold  under  a  dependable  brand,  is  one  of  the  cleanest 
and  most  wholesome  food  products  on  the  market.  Unlike  butter, 
every  pound  of  oleomargarine  must  stand  government  inspection; 
the  examination  is  rigid  and  the  standard  high.  The  better  grades 
of  oleomargarine  are  churned  with  milk  or  cream  to  increase  rich- 
ness, and  give  a  creamery  flavor.  Oleomargarine  goes  just  as  far  as 
butter  and  keeps  better  because  there  is  less  moisture  in  it.  Con- 
sequently, there  is  an  additional  economy  in  its  use-.  Scientific 
tests  show  that  the  difference  in  the  food  value  of  butter  and  oleo- 
margarine is  too  slight  to  be  taken  into  account  in  the  average  diet. 
Government  experts  and  practical  housewives  both  highly  endorse 
oleomargarine  as  a  wholesome  and  desirable  product.  It  may 
well  displace  butter  in  cooking  and  even  where  great  economy 
is  not  a  consideration,  it  is  a  delicious  product  to  serve  on  the  family 
table.  It  is  better  than  dairy  butter,  and  far  safer.  Most  people 
like  to  know  what  they  are  eating,  and  they  can  be  sure  of  purity 
and  cleanliness  when  they  use  oleomargarine,  for  every  ingredient 
contained  in  it  is  used  on  the  table  in  some  form  or  another. 

The  theory  that  fats  are  hard  to  digest  has  been  exploded.  It 
takes  more  time  to  digest  fat  than  some  other  foods,  and  fats  are 
not  readily  assimilated  by  some  individuals.  Fried  articles  (foods 
coated  with  a  layer  of  fat)  are  not  easily  digested;  but,  generally 
speaking,  fats  that  are  not  overheated  or  rancid  can  be  thoroughly 
digested  by  any  normal  person.  Excessive  heating  of  fat  forms 
acids  that  are  undesirable.  The  use  of  pastry,  doughnuts,  etc.,  is 
not  advocated  for  a  person  with  a  delicate  stomach;  but  a  bland, 
weak  fat,  such  as  butter  or  oleomargarine,  can  be  used  universally. 


*0kU>  maAk.  (I 


Wilson  &  Co. 


~V~W 


lutuA-  qujjJyja^rdjte 


18 


s» 


WHOLE  CHUCK 


(See  figure  ©,  pages  32  and  33) 
The  steaks  cut  from  the  chuck  are  juicy  and  well  flavored.  The  lower  part  of  the  shoulder  has 
little  bone;  but  the  meat  is  very  fat.  The  distribution  of  fat  and  bone  gives  good  results  in 
stewing.  Pot  roast,  stews,  casserole  dishes,  and  spiced  beef  may  all  be  made  from  chuck  beef. 
It  is  sometimes  corned,  also.  Care  must  be  taken  when  bones  are  cut  away,  that  any  small  bits 
are  removed  before  cooking.  The  neck  makes  good  mince  meat;  or  it  can  be  served  as  a  brown 
stew.  It  is  also  exceedingly  good  if  strips  of  salt  pork  are  run  through  the  meat  for  flavor  and 
richness.  Chuck  combines  well  with  spaghetti  or  macaroni  since  the  rich  gravy  supplies  what 
the  pastes  lack.  If  the  meat  has  been  cut  up  before  cooking,  the  gravy  will  be  better,  and  the 
serving  can  be  done  to  better  advantage. 

The  clod,  included  here,  and  which  extends  from  the  shoulder  into  the  fore  shank,  is  suitable  for 
pot  roast  or  braising.  A  medium  chuck  as  purchased  has  about  10%  fat,  16%  protein,  and  15% 
waste. 


CHUCK  STEAK  WITH  ONIONS 

2  pounds  chuck  steak 
5  or  6  onions 

Salt 

Butter  or  oleomargarine 
Slice  onions  in  water.  Drain  thor- 
oughly. Place  onions  in  a  shallow 
saucepan,  cover  closely  and  cook  over 
a  slow  fire  for  15  or  20  minutes  till 
tender.  Use  no  water  or  fat,  as  the 
onions  contain  both  moisture  and  rich- 
ness. When  the  onions  are  done,  un- 
cover and  brown  slightly  if  preferred, 
but  they  are  more  digestible  without 
browning.  Heat  a  frying  pan  smoking 
hot,  and  brown  the  steak  quickly  on 
both  sides ;  reduce  the  heat  and  turn 
the  meat  frequently  until  it  is  cooked 
through.  Season  the  steak  and  salt 
the  onions.  Serve  the  meat  on  a  plat- 
ter with  onions  around  it.  Add  butter 
or  oleomargarine  if  desired. 
POT  ROAST  WITH  VEGETABLES 

3  or  4  pounds  chuck  roast 
1  cup  sliced  carrots 

1  cup  sliced  onions 

1  cup  celery  cut  in  bits 

1  cup  sliced  turnips 

3  tablespoons  fat  (preferably 

irom  salt  pork) 
If  the  meat  is  not  in  a  solid  piece 
skewer  or  tie  it  into  shape,  wipe  it  with 
damp  cheesecloth,  and  roll  in  flour. 
Boil  vegetables  in  salted  water  to 
barely  cover,  until  soft.  Rub  through 
a  coarse  strainer.    Heat  fat  in  a  frying 


Tie  in 
square 
of  cloth 


pan  or  Dutch  oven.     Put  in  the  meat 
and  brown  on  all  sides.     If  the  frying 
pan  is  used,  transfer  the  meat,  after 
it  is  brown,  to  a  kettle,  unless  the  pan 
is  deep  enough  to  hold  the  beef.    Pour 
the  vegetables  and  their  liquid  over 
the  meat,  together  with  any  preferred 
seasoning.    Cover  tightly  and  let  sim- 
mer slowly  for  four  or  five  hours,  turn- 
ing twice.     Thicken  the  gravy  a  little, 
and  pour  over  the  meat 
BEEF  STEAK  PIE 
Chuck  steak,  cut  in  narrow  strips 
Bit  of  garlic 
]/2  bay  leaf 
6  peppercorns 
Sprig  of  parsley 
1  onion  stuffed  with  2  cloves. 
1  cup  sliced  carrots 
1  cup  celery  cut  in  strips 
4  halved  potatoes 

Place  steak  in  a  kettle  with  boiling 
water  to  cover,  and  let  it  simmer  for 
half  an  hour.  Add  seasoning  in  bag 
together  with  salt  to  the  meat,  and 
thicken  the  stock.  Place  the  kettle  on 
an  asbestos  mat  to  keep  sauce  from 
sticking.  Some  dried  mushrooms 
soaked  and  drained  improve  the  flavor. 
Simmer  while  making  the  pastry. 
Then  remove  the  bag  of  seasoning. 
Put  all  in  a  baking  dish  with  a  rolled 
crust  over  the  top  and  sides.  Brush 
with  milk  and  bake  forty  minutes, 
covering  it  with  heavy  paper  as  soon 
as  it  is  brown. 


DhJUb  maAk 


Wilson  &  Co. 


uouft*  ouanxi/niee 


19 


II  ■ 


SHANK 

(See  figure  ®,  pages  32  and  33) 

Over  one-third  of  the  fore  shank  consists  of  bone,  and  the  amount  of  fat  is  very  small,  so  soup 
making  is  the  logical  use  for  this  cut  of  meat.  A  solid  piece  of  meat  is  first  cut  off  from  the  top 
for  Hamburg  Steak  or  stewing.  Bones  and  trimmings  should  then  be  cooked  an  hour  or  more 
before  adding  the  browned  meat,  if  the  full  flavor  is  to  be  obtained.  Vegetables  may  be  added 
during  the  last  hour,  and  rice,  dumplings,  split  biscuits  or  crust  added  at  the  time  of  serving,  if 
the  full  meal  in  one  dish  is  desired.  For  variety  in  flavoring,  crisp  salt  pork,  some  dry  grated 
cheese,  or  a  little  curry,  may  be  mixed  with  the  flour  used  in  thickening,  and  will  prove  an  agreeable 
addition.  If  there  is  more  than  enough  meat  for  one  meal,  it  would  be  well  to  sort  over  the  pieces 
before  serving,  reserving  the  best  pieces  to  use  whole,  and  the  balance  for  hash  meat  or  some 
similar  use. 

The  hind  shank  contains  valuable  flavoring  matter  and  the  large  amount  of  bone  makes  it  desirable 
for  use  in  the  preparation  of  soup.  The  proportion  of  lean  varies.  From  the  top  part  a  good  pot 
roast  may  be  prepared.  The  middle  cut  is  the  most  economical.  The  shank  meat  averages  high 
in  protein  and  is  good  stewed  and  served  with  noodles  or  hominy  grits.  Beef  tea  and  beef  extract 
are  made  from  the  shank.  The  former  is  of  known  value  in  the  sick  room;  the  latter  is  a  great 
convenience  in  cooking.  Beef  tea  as  a  food  has  been  greatly  overrated,  however.  It  has  stimu- 
lating properties  and  is  an  aid  to  digestion,  but  the  strong  meaty  taste  is  deceptive.  All  of  the 
flavor  and  much  of  the  fat  is  extracted  from  meat  in  the  proper  preparation  of  soup  but  food 
value  still  remains  in  the  solid  portion  of  meat  even  though  it  may  have  lost  half  its  weight  through 
continued  cooking. 


SOUP  MAKING— Wipe  the  soup 
shank  with  a  damp  cloth,  crack  the 
bones  and  cut  the  meat  into  pieces, 
Place  bones,  meat,  fat  and  marrow  in 
a  large  kettle,  which  has  a  tight  fitting 
cover.  Add  cold  water  in  the  propor- 
tion of  a  pint  to  each  pound  of  ma- 
terial, if  you  desire  rich  stock,  and  a 
quart  per  pound  if  you  desire  light 
stock.  Let  it  stand  for  one-half  hour, 
then  heat  very  slowly  to  the  bubbling 
point,  and  add  salt.  Other  seasonings 
may  be  tied  in  a  cloth  and  left  for  an 
hour  or  two  in  the  stock.  Vegetables 
should  not  be  cooked  too  long  with 
the  soup  stock,  as  overcooking  devel- 
ops an  unsatisfactory  flavor.  If  clean 
materials  are  used,  no  skimming  is 
needed;  since  this  makes  clear  soup, 
but  takes  away  some  of  the  nourish- 
ment. The  soup  should  simmer  from 
four  to  ten  hours  according  to  ingredi- 
ents used,  and  the  strength  desired. 
Fuel  cost  is  small  if  the  gas  flame  is 
kept  at  its  lowest  point.  The  veg- 
etables should  be  removed,  unless  the 
soup  is  to  be  served  at  once.  Quick 
cooling  aids  in  preserving  the  quality. 
The  fat  which  forms  on  top  should  not 
be  removed  until  the  stock  is  to  be 
used,  as  the  solid  cake  of  fat  acts  as  a 
preservative.  In  warm  weather  stock 
should  not  be  kept  over  twenty-four 
hours;    in  cold  weather  it  can  be  kept 


for  several  days.  If  the  stock  is  to  be 
used  immediately,  all  fat  should  be 
removed.  The  fat  that  cannot  be 
taken  off  with  a  spoon  may  be  ab- 
sorbed by  blotting  paper  or  a  soft 
cloth.  Greasy  soup  is  exceedingly 
unpalatable.  The  bright  color  in  a 
good  brown  soup  is  obtained  by 
browning  part  of  the  meat  before 
adding  it  to  the  stock. 

JELLIED  SOUP — Rich  beef  or  other 
soup  stock  may  be  chilled  and  served 
cold  for  special  occasions  in  summer. 
The  stock  is  cleared  with  egg  to  make 
it  attractive  in  appearance.  Mix 
together  a  quart  of  stock  and  the  shell 
and  white  of  one  egg.  Apply  gradual 
heat  and  stir  constantly  until  a  thick 
scum  forms  on  the  top.  Let  the  dish 
stand  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain 
the  soup  through  a  napkin  or  other 
fine  cloth.  The  soup  must  be  made 
with  considerable  bone  if  it  is  to 
jelly.  If  it  is  not  firm  enough,  it  can 
be  stiffened  with  gelatine  in  the  pro- 
portion of  a  tablespoon  of  gelatine 
softened  in  two  tablespoons  of  water 
for  each  three  cups  of  soup.  The 
jellied  soup  must  be  rather  highly 
seasoned  and  a  small  amount  of 
caramel  coloring  will  give  the  desired 
tint  to  a  pale  soup. 


OKlb  moAk, 


A      M 


Wilson  &  Co. 


~V^V 


ao-Wv  aujah&nrdze? 


20 


PLATE— BRISKET  END 


(See  figure  ®,  pages  32  and  33) 

The  brisket  gives  the  streak  of  lean  and  streak  of  fat  that  the  epicure  demands  in  fine  corned  beef; 
Smoked  brisket  is  excellent.  As  the  texture  of  brisket  is  closer  than  that  of  the  navel  end,  the 
brisket  takes  longer  to  cook.  Fresh  boiled  brisket  is  good,  hot,  cold,  01*  warmed  over — in  fact, 
it  deserves  more  attention  than  it  usually  gets.  It  can  be  boned  and  a  good  stock  made  from 
the  bone,  with  the  addition  of  seasoning.  The  solid  meat  can  be  braised  with  salt  pork  for  flavor, 
with  stock  for  moisture,  and  vegetables.  Several  hours  are  needed  to  prepare  this  dish.  The 
vegetables  should  be  added  when  the  meat  is  partly  done.  The  brisket  can  be  sliced,  pounded  in 
flour,  browned  in  drippings,  and  stewed  in  stock  with  potatoes  and  parsnips  in  a  casserole.  These 
"One  Piece  Dinners"  are  economical,  since  they  save  labor,  fuel  and  service. 


BEEF  BRISKET,  boiled  and  browned 
— If  the  piece  has  a  large  amount  of 
bone,  some  of  this  may  be  removed 
to  use  for  soup  stock,  or  to  furnish 
gravy  to  be  used  with  the  warmed-over 
meat  for  a  second  service.  Cook  the 
solid  part  of  the  meat  until  tender, 
with  a  little  celery  salt  and  a  bit  of 
garlic  added,  turning  it  once  during 
the  cooking,  which  will  take  from  four 
to  six  hours  according  to  the  amount  of 
meat  used.  Remove  meat  from  liquor 
and  place  in  a  shallow  pan  with  the 
skin  side  up  and  score  the  top  several 
times.  Have  boiled  potatoes  ready 
and  drop  them  into  the  kettle  to  take 
up  a  little  of  the  fat,  then  place  them 
around  meat  and  brown  all  in  a  hot 
oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Make 
a  gravy  with  the  remaining  liquor  and 
serve  separately. 

BRISKET  WITH  ONION  SAUCE— 
Wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth,  and 
tie  it  into  a  compact  shape  with  strips 
of  cloth.  Place  it  in  a  deep  kettle 
with  boiling  water.  Add  a  soup  bunch, 
several  cloves  and  peppercorns.  Sim- 
mer until  tender,  add  salt  when  partly 
cooked.  Take  the  meat  from  the 
liquid,  remove  the  cloth,  and  place 
the  meat  in  a  shallow  baking  dish. 
Beat  one  egg  and  spread  over  the 
beef,  then  sprinkle  with  coarse  crumbs, 
and  brown  under  a  flame  or  in  a  hot 
oven.  For  sauce — for  a  three-pound 
piece  of  meat — cut  up  half  a  cup  of 
green  onions  and  cook  these  with  two 


tablespoons  of  oleomargarine.  Brown 
slightly.  Stir  in  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  add  a  cup  and  one-half  from  the 
stock  and  a  tablespoon  of  minced 
parsley.  Keep  the  sauce  over  hot 
water,  or  in  a  double  boiler,  until  the 
meat  is  finished.  Pour  the  sauce 
over  the  meat  and  serve. 

BRAISED  BEEF— Cut  the  meat  into 
cubes;  brown  in  frying  pan  with  drip- 
pings. Use  strong  heat — stir  meat  so 
it  will  coat  quickly  and  not  lose  its 
juice.  Tender  cuts  can  be  cooked 
whole.  Remove  the  pieces  to  a  closely 
covered  kettle  that  can  be  used  on  top 
of  range  (unless  the  oven  is  heated 
for  other  cooking).  Rinse  the  pan 
with  a  )4  cup  of  boiling  water  to  save 
all  browned  bits,  and  pour  over  meat. 
Cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly  for  two 
hours. 

Prepare  the  following  sauce  and  pour 
over  the  meat  and  continue  cooking 
for  another  hour. 

SAUCE 

1  onion  1 

1  carrot  [chopped 
Few  sprigs  parsleyj 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  oleomargarine 
^  cup  diced  celery 

1  cup  canned  tomatoes 

Salt  and  paprika 

Melt  fat.     Brown  onion,  carrot  in  it. 

Add    parsley,    celery,    and    tomatoes. 

Heat  thoroughly.     Add  seasonings. 


'ahJUb  maAk.  IKWH'I 


W^W 


aauA  cLua/va/ntee' 


21 


NAVEL  END  OF  PLATE 

(See  figure  ®,  No.  1,  pages  32  and  33) 

The  meat  from  the  navel  end  is  sometimes  used  for  stew  and  pot  roast,  but  more  often  it  is  corned. 
Corned  and  smoked  meats  are  toughened  by  the  process  of  curing,  so  that  they  need  longer 
cooking  than  fresh  meat.  Always  place  cured  meat  in  cold  water,  heat  gradually,  and  skim 
the  water  when  it  begins  to  bubble.  It  is  almost  impossible  to  cook  cured  beef  too  slowly,  as  it  is 
toughened  by  strong  heat.     A  steam  cooker  or  double  boiler  gives  good  results. 


CORNED  BEEF— Wash  the  meat 
quickly  and  if  it  has  been  in  brine 
longer  than  desired,  cover  it  with 
cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil, 
drain  off  the  Water  and  reheat  with 
fresh  cold  water.  As  soon  as  the  liquid 
bubbles,  reduce  the  heat,  add  a  few 
peppercorns,  and  continue  the  slow 
cooking  (always  below  the  boiling 
point),  until  the  meat  is  tender.  At 
least  one  hours  cooking  will  be  re- 
quired on  each  pound  of  beef.  Keep 
the  meat  closely  covered  during  cook- 
ing and  it  will  have  to  be  turned  when 
partly  done,  if  the  water  does  not 
cover  it.  Carrots,  parsnips,  turnips 
and  potatoes  can  be  added  during 
the  cooking  if  desired.  Cabbage  and 
meat  should  not  be  placed  in  the 
same  kettle.  Cut  the  cabbage  into 
quarters,  use  some  of  the  stock  to 
cook  it  in  to  obtain  a  meat  flavor. 
Vegetables  can  all  be  cooked  in  the 
stock  without  the  beef,  if  the  meat 
is  to  be  used  cold  afterwards.  Place 
the  left-over  meat  that  is  to  be  served 
cold  in  the  stock  to  cool. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH 

1  pint  (2  cups)  chopped  corned  beef 
\]/2    pints   chopped   cooked    potatoes 
y$  cup  beef  drippings 

2  tablespoons  minced  onions 
yi  cup  water 

Mix.  corned  beef  and  potatoes.  Melt 
fat  in  frying  pan  and  add  onions. 
Add  hash  and  mix  thoroughly.  Add 
water.  Cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly 
for  half  an  hour  or  until  a  brown  crust 
is  formed  on  the  bottom.  Loosen 
carefully  from  the  pan  and  turn  out 
like  an  omelet  on  a  hot  platter.  If 
the  oven  is  in  use,  hash  may  be  baked 


either  in  a  frying  pan  or  in  a  shallow 
dish  from  which  it  can  be  served. 
For  variety  a  cup  of  white  sauce 
instead  of  water,  may  be  mixed  with 
baked  hash,  in  which  case  less  fat  will 
be    necessary    for    cooking. 

SAVORY  BEEF 

2  pounds  beef  cut  in  size  for  serving 
(use  plate,  shank,  rump  or  round) 

3  large  onions  sliced 
3  tablespoons  lard 

3  tablespoons  flour 
1  teaspoon  salt 
yi  teaspoon  black  pepper 
%  teaspoon  ground  cloves  and  thyme 
or  summer  savory 

1  pint  brown  stock  or  boiling  water 
and  meat  extract 

2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  catsup 

Brown  onions  slowly  in  lard.  Increase 
the  heat.  Add  meat  and  brown. 
Mix  the  flour,  pepper  and  other  sea- 
sonings. Sprinkle  this  mixture  over 
the  meat.  Add  the  stock,  vinegar  and 
catsup.  Cover  closely.  Simmer  till 
meat  is  tender,  allowing  two  hours 
for  shank  or  plate  and  \}4  hours  for 
rump  or  round. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN  BEEF 

2  cups  cooked  corned  beef,  cubed 
1  cup  medium  white  sauce 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped  fine 

2  slices  onion,  chopped 

Cook  celery  and  onion  in  sauce.  Put 
the  corned  beef  in  a  shallow  baking 
dish.  Remove  celery  and  onion  from 
sauce.  Add  sauce  to  meat.  Sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  moistened  with 
melted  oleomargarine.  Brown  in  hot 
oven. 


Ohito  iruxAk 


Wilson  &  Co 


uoruA*  ouoAo^rvtee 


22 


■  II 


THE  RIBS 

(See  figure  ®,  Nos.  2  and  4,  pages  32  and  33) 

The  first  cut  of  the  upper  part  of  the  forequarter  consists  of  seven  ribs.  The  ribs,  as  purchased, 
medium  fat  and  lean,  contain  about  21%  fat,  14%' protein,  20%  waste  or  refuse.  The  prices 
paid  for  this  choice  meat  does  not  represent  food  value  as  much  as  it  does  agreeable  eating. 
A  large  amount  of  surface,  cut  across  the  grain,  is  exposed  in  cooking,  and  this  is  one  reason  why 
a  small  roast  is  rarely  satisfactory,  as  at  least  two  ribs  are  needed  to  retain  the  juices — three  are 
even  better. 

The  first  cut  is  considered  best,  and  is  not  too  heavy  for  an  average  family.  The  second  cut  is 
larger  and  equally  good  (as  shown  in  the  right-hand  picture).  The  third  and  largest  cut  is  not 
quite  so  choice.  The  ribs  are  cut  off  to  about  eight  or  ten  inches,  leaving  what  is  known  as  "short 
ribs."  (See  figure  ©,  No.  2.)  These  are  either  boiled,  browned,  or  boned,  rolled  and  baked. 
The  ribs  are  always  roasted,  inasmuch  as  much  flavor  is  lost  by  boning.  The  fat  is  used  for  bast- 
ing, since  to  add  water  to  a  choice  roast  of  beef  is  a  culinary  crime. 

and  finish  cooking  at  a  lower  tem- 
perature on  a  lower  slide;  or  else 
place  in  baking  oven  as  preferred. 
Pork  and  fowl  require  water  in  roast- 
ing, but  beef  or  mutton  never  do  unless 
a  covered  roaster  is  used.  Rare  meat 
will  be  better  flavored  if  cooked  in  an 
open  pan;  well  done  roasts  may  be 
cooked  in  a  covered  roaster. 


ROASTING — Roasting  is  a  process 
similar  to  broiling,  the  only  difference 
being  in  the  cut  and  weight  of  the 
meat,  and  the  amount  of  time  re- 
quired. Tough  meat  is  not  made 
tender  by  rapid  cooking;  but  roasting 
is  the  ideal  method  for  a  choice  tender 
cut,  although  these  cuts  are  not  eco- 
nomical on  account  of  their  high 
first  cost.  Rolled  roasts  are  popular 
and  easily  carved.  The  best  shape 
is  the  standing  roast,  which  is  not 
boned,  but  the  bones  cut  short. 
Boned  meat  can  easily  be  tied  or 
fastened  with  a  skewer.  Steel  skewers 
are  superior  to  wood,  on  account  of 
the  greater  ease  in  serving. 

Roasts  should  be  placed  on  a  rack 
to  prevent  the  meat  from  frying  in 
its  own  fat.  Strong  heat  is  necessary 
at  the  outset  as  in  broiling,  and  at  least 
ten  full  minutes  heat  of  the  oven  is 
necessary  when  gas  is  used.  The 
smaller  the  roast,  the  stronger  should 
be  the  first  heat,  so  as  to  prevent  the 
juices  drying  up.  Sear  each  side  of 
the  roast  under  a  flame,  add  seasoning, 


THE  RIBS — A  fine  roast  requires 
attention.  There  is  no  danger  of  the 
meat  cooking  dry  if  the  heat  is  mod- 
erate and  basting  frequent.  Lean 
meat  requires  additional  fat  (drippings 
saved  from  previous  cooking  may  be 
used).  Gravy  can  be  cooked  in  the 
oven  at  the  same  time — without  addi- 
tional fuel.  Add  to  cold  water — stock 
from  the  bone — -trimmings  and  veg- 
etables— together  with  browned  fat 
from  the  roasting  pan  and  flour  to 
thicken.  Secondary  flavors  can  be 
extracted  from  roasts  or  steaks  (after 
serving)  by  stewing  the  bones  for  a 
long  time-  This  stock  can  be  intensi- 
fied with  vegetables  and  seasonings,  if 
desired. 


3kU>  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


uoruiu  QAm3\J^rdut£ 


23 


FLANK  STEAK 


(See  figure  ©,  No.  1,  pages  32  and  33) 

The  flank  is  attached  to  the  loin  of  beef.  There  is  practically  no  bone  in  the  flank,  but  a  large 
portion  of  it  is  fat.  Most  of  this  fat  is  trimmed  off.  The  lean  portion  is  used  for  boiled  meat, 
and  for  stew.  It  is  rather  coarse  in  texture,  and,  as  it  lacks  flavor,  additional  ingredients  are 
advisable. 

The  flank  steak  is  cut  away  to  be  sold  by  itself.  An  excellent  pot  pie  can  be  made  from  flank 
meat,  and  an  excellent  covered  meat  pie  may  be  made  with  the  addition  of  a  suet  crust.  The 
best  way  to  utilize  the  meat,  however,  is  to  bone  and  roll  it,  and  then  put  it  in  brine.  This  will 
result  in  excellent  corned  beef,  which  will  slice  to  good  advantage  either  hot  or  cold.  If  it  is  to 
be  used  cold,  it  is  well  to  place  a  weight  on  the  meat  as  it  cools  in  the  stock. 


STUFFED  FLANK— Make  a  pocket 
in  a  thick  flank  steak  to  hold  the 
dressing,  or  if  the  meat  is  thin,  fold 
one-half  over  the  other  and  skewer 
together,  after  it  has  been  filled. 
To  make  the  dressing,  crumble  one 
pint  of  bread,  soften  with  cold 
water  and  drain  well  after  it  is  moist 
throughout.  Season  the  crumbs  with 
salt  and  pepper,  onion  salt  and  celery 
salt,  a  little  poultry  seasoning  and 
two  tablespoons  of  drippings.  Pack 
the  dressing  closely  into  the  meat, 
pat  it  into  shape  and  bake  for  one 
hour  in  a  covered  roaster,  or  for  an 
hour  and  a  quarter  in  an  open  pan.  In 
the  latter  case  it  is  necessary  to  baste 
several  times.  A  few  slices  of  bacon 
placed  on  the  top  of  the  meat  ten  min- 
utes before  serving,  improves  the  dish. 

BEEF  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

1  pound  flank,  rump  or  plate 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  J4~mch  cubes 

yi  small  onion  cut  in  slices 

yi  cup  flour        >2  teaspoon  salt 


Carrot  Itwo-thirds    cup, 
Turnip  J      J-^-inch  cubes 


cut    in 


Flour,  salt  and  pepper,  mixed 

Wipe  meat,  remove  from  bone,  cut  in 

1  >£-inch  cubes.  Dredge  with  seasoned 
flour.  Cut  some  of  the  fat  in  small 
pieces  and  heat  in  frying  pan — add 
meat.  Stir  constantly  that  the  sur- 
face may  be  seared,  when  well  browned 
put  in  kettle.  Rinse  frying  pan  with 
boiling  water,  boil  five  minutes,  then 
cook  at  a  lower  temperature  until 
meat  is  .tender  (about  three  hours). 
Add  carrot,  turnip  and  onion  the  last 
hour  of  cooking.  Cook  potatoes  five 
minutes.  Add  to  stew  fifteen  minutes 
before  removing  from  the  fire.  If 
dumplings  are  added,  allow  fifteen 
minutes  for  cooking. 

DUMPLINGS 

2  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 
%  cup  milk  y2  teaspoon  salt 
Sift  dry  ingredients  into  a  bowl.  Add 
milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough, 
dropping  spoonfuls  of  the  dough  on 
the  stew.  Marrow  taken  from  the 
soup  bone  before  cooking  and  placed 
on  top  of  the  dumplings  before  steam- 
ing improves  them. 


% 


THE  FLANK 

(See  figure  ©,  page?  32  and  33) 


*0KU>  TruxAk.  ] 


Wilson  &  Co. 


T~V 


acruJx,  euLOL/ua/nieje 


24 


WEDGE  BONE  SIRLOIN 

(See  figure  ©,  No.  2,  pages  32  and  33) 


PLANKED  SIRLOIN  STEAK 

Slice  sirloin  steak,  cut  1  inch  thick 

Salt 

Pepper 

Wipe  steak  with  cloth  wrung  out  in 
hot  water.  Sear  in  greased  iron  pan. 
Then  place  on  oiled  oak  plank.  Put 
in  hot  oven  and  cook  twelve  minutes. 
When  about  half  done  arrange  a 
border  of  mashed  or  duchess  potatoes 
around  the  edge  of  the  steak.  Brown 
the  potatoes.  Place  on  platter  for 
serving.  Browned  onions  and  parsley 
may  garnish  this  dish. 


SWISS  STEAK 

2  pounds  round  or  sirloin  steak  cut  2 

inches  thick 
Yi  cup  flour       \. 
Salt  and  pepper/mix 
yi  cup  ham  or  bacon  drippings 
Few  slices  onion 
yi  green  pepper,  chopped  fine 
2  cups  boiling  water  or  1  cup  water 

and  1  cup  strained  tomatoes 
Pound  flour  into  meat  with  wooden 
potato  masher  or  edge  of  heavy  plate. 
Heat  the  fat.  Brown  the  meat  on 
each  side,  in  it.  Add  onion,  green 
pepper,  boiling  water  and  tomato. 
Cover  closely.  Simmer  two  hours. 
This  may  be  cooked  in  a  casserole  in 
the  oven.  Other  vegetables  may  be 
added  if  desired. 


SIRLOIN  BUTT 


The  Boneless  Sirloin  Butt  makes  a  good  steak  or  roast.     The  back  of  the  sirloin  with  the  tenderloin 
removed  can  be  made  into  a  boneless  strip  for  similar  use,  or  for  pot  roast. 


OhJUb  moJik, 


[Wilson  &  Co. 


uouA.  Quo/va/ntee' 


25 


II  ■ 


PORTERHOUSE  STEAK 


CLUB  STEAK 


(See  figure  ©,  Nos.  11  and  17,  pages  32  and  33) 

Loin  (figure  ©,  pages  32  and  33)  contains  the  fine  steaks,  including  sirloin,  club  and  porterhouse 
steaks.  These  various  steaks  take  their  name  according  to  the  bone — the  first  cuts  taken  from 
the  rump  end  have  the  least  bone,  and  the  amount  of  bone  increases  as  the  cuts  continue.  The 
steak  cut  last,  the  club  steak,  contains  most  bone. 

The  tenderloin  is  neither  so  fine  flavored  or  juicy  as  the  other  cuts,  but  brings  a  high  price  on 
account  of  its  tenderness.  Salt  pork  is  generally  added  to  tenderloin  steak  in  cooking,  for  addi- 
tional fat  and  flavor.  Tenderloins  are  not  generally  taken  out  of  the  best  grade  of  meat,  as  the 
balance  would  then  have  to  be  sold  at  reduced  prices. 

BROILING 


TENDER  meat  in  broiling  should  be  surrounded  by  fat,  or  brushed  over 
with  soft  fat  to  avoid  dryness.  The  edges  of  the  meat  should  be  cut  in 
several  places  to  prevent  curling,  as  they  will  contract  from  heat.  No 
seasoning  should  be  used  until  the  meat  is  partly  cooked.  A  thick  steak  is 
far  better  eating  than  a  thin  one,  so  that  for  a  small  family  it  is  better  to 
buy  a  fair-sized  steak  and  cut  it  in  two  portions  and  broil  at  different  times, 
than  to  choose  a  thin  one  for  economy.  It  is  a  mistake  to  bone  a  steak  before 
cooking,  although  it  may  prove  convenient.  Remember  that  "the  nearer 
the  bone,  the  sweeter  the  meat." 

Intense  heat  is  necessary  for  broiling.  A  perfect  bed  of  coals  is  not  easily 
secured,  and  may  interfere  with  other  cooking;  hence,  broiling  by  this  method 
has  not  been  popular  with  the  housewife.  At  the  present  time,  when  gas  is 
almost  the  universal  fuel,  broiling  has  become  a  practical  process.  The  fire 
should  be  lighted  fully  ten  minutes  before  the  cooking  begins,  and  the  broiling 
pan  well  heated.  The  metal  rack  should  be  removed  because  meat  sticks  to 
hot  wires.  The  meat  is  placed  near  the  flame  at  first  and  turned  as  soon  as 
seared.  Avoid  piercing  the  meat  with  a  fork,  as  this  will  cause  juices  to  be 
lost.  As  soon  as  each  side  is  brown,  reduce  the  heat  and  season  the  meat 
lightly.  If  the  steak  should  contain  too  much  fat,  place  the  fat  part  towards 
the  front  of  the  oven. 

Leave  the  lower  door  of  the  gas  oven  open  when  broiling,  to  do  away  with 
smoke  and  the  fumes  of  cooking.  The  meat  need  only  be  turned  once  or 
twice,  and  the  time  for  cooking  depends  upon  the  thickness  of  the  cut  and  the 
family's  taste  for  rare  or  well-done  steak,  but  a  good  rule  is  to  broil  a  steak 
1  inch  thick  seven  to  ten  minutes,  and  \}4  inches  thick  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 
Place  the  meat  on  a  heated  platter,  add  part  of  the  fat  from  the  pan,  and 
serve  at  once.  The  flavor,  delicacy  and  digestibility  is  far  superior  to  steak 
cooked  by  any  other  methods.  Even  Hamburg  steak  takes  on  a  new  dignity 
when  broiled.  It  should  be  lightly  seasoned  (a  little  onion  juice  helps),  and  if 
the  meat  is  moistened  with  cream  the  dish  will  be  a  treat.  Shape  it  lightly 
so  that  it  will  not  become  dry  when  cooking.  Hamburg  steak  is  better  if 
cooked  in  one  large  flat  cake  than  if  made  into  small  ones,  and  can  also  be 
more  easily  handled  by  inverting  it  on  a  pie  pan. 


DKU>  TTVOLTtk. 


%     a     a 


Wilson  &  Co. 


^t^t 


lutuA  oua^O'Tvtee 


26 


THE  RUMP 

(See  figure  0,  pages  32  and  33) 

The  average  beef  rump  consists  of  about  20%  fat,  14%  protein,  and  21%  waste,  yielding  about 
1,100  calories  per  pound.  The  rump  requires  considerable  trimming  which  increases  the  actual 
cost  of  the  meat.  As  beef  is  cut  in  the  east,  the  tip  of  the  rump  is  an  economical  large  roast  and 
the  middle  cut  of  six  or  seven  pounds  is  good.  In  western  cuts,  the  rump  is  generally  corned. 
It  may  be  braised  with  vegetables  in  a  covered  roaster.  /  After  the  initial  browning  it  should  be 
simmered  at  a  very  low  temperature  for  an  hour  and  a  half  for  each  pound  of  meat.  The  tough 
fibre  may  be  broken  up«by  pounding.  Pounding  in  the  old  fashioned  way  meant  lost  juices;  but 
when  we  pound  in  flour  we  accomplish  the  same  purpose  and  save  the  juice.  The  flavor  of  the 
meat  is  improved  by  a  stock  made  from  bones  and  trimmings  and  the  use  of  spices  and  vinegar 
makes  the  meat  more  tender  and  also  improves  its  flavor. 


SMOTHERED  BEEF 

3  pounds  of  rump  or  clod 

3  large  onions  sliced 

3  tablespoons  oil  or  drippings 

2  tablespoons  mild  prepared  mustard 
Flour  mixed  with  salt  and  pepper 

1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1  cup  strained  tomatoes  or  yi  can 

tomato  soup 
Dredge  meat  with  flour.  Brown  well 
in  a  heavy  pan.  Brown  onions  in  oil 
and  add  mustard,  celery  seed  and 
tomatoes.  Pour  this  sauce  over  the 
meat  and  cook  slowly  for  three  hours 
or  more  on  top  of  the  stove  or  for 
six  hours  in  a  fireless  cooker. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  KIDNEY 
PUDDING 

1  pound  beef  from  rump  cut  in  cubes 
1  beef  kidney,  washed  and  membrane 

removed,  and  cut  in  eight  pieces 
Seasoned  flour 

Add  kidney  suet  to  beef  and  roll  all  in 
seasoned  flour. 

CRUST 

3  cups  flour 

6  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Salt 

Yt,  cup  beef  suet  chopped  fine 

Mix   to  stiff  paste   with  cold   water. 

Roll  out  thicker  than  pie  crust.     Line 

bowl  with  it.     Put  in  meat.     Season 

with   onion  juice   and   add   water   to 

within  two  inches  of  the  top.     Moisten 

the  edge  of  the  crust,  cover  the  dish 

with  the  rest  of  the  paste  and  press 


well  together.  Wring  out  a  large 
cloth  in  boiling  water,  flour  it,  place 
it  over  the  top  and  tie  it  down.  Set 
the  pudding  on  a  trivet  in  boiling 
water  to  cook  in  a  steamer  for  two 
hours  and  a  half.  Remove  the  cloth 
and  cut  a  hole  in  the  crust  before 
serving. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE 

5  pounds  rump,  round  or  chuck  roast 

yi  pound  firm  salt  pork 

1  teaspoon  each  ground  cloves,  all- 
spice, cinnamon,  black  pepper,  sum- 
mer savory,  thyme  and  salt 

1  yi  cups  vinegar 

2  bay  leaves 

Bit  mace  mix  and  scald 

Chopped  parsley 
Slice  of  onion,  chopped 
Cut  the  pork  in  small  strips  and  roll 
in  a  mixture  of  the  dry  seasonings. 
Make  deep  cuts  in  the  beef  with  a 
sharp  knife,  and  force  the  strips  of 
pork  in  with  a  larding  needle.  Cover 
the  surface  of  the  meat  with  the 
balance  of  the  spices  and  place  it  in  a 
deep  earthen  dish.  Cool  the  vinegar 
and  pour  this  sauce  over  the  meat, 
which  should  then  be  tightly  covered 
and  set  aside  in  a  cool  place.  It  should 
be  turned  morning  and  night  for  sev- 
eral days  and  then  boiling  water  added 
to  barely  cover.  Let  it  simmer  for 
four  hours  or  more.  Thicken  the 
liquid,  strain  and  serve  with  the  meat, 
which  will  be  dark  in  appearance  but 
most  savorv  in  flavor. 


*3hib  TruiAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


uoruJv  au£L/\a/n£eje" 


ROUND  STEAK 


(See  figure  ®,  No.  8,  pages  32  and  33) 

The  round  is  popular  because  it  is  juicy  and  free  from  fat  and  has  a  somewhat  larger  amount 
than  have  some  of  the  other  cuts.  The  top  of  the  round  (or  inside)  can  be  used  for  steak  and 
roast;  the  bottom  (or  outside)  is  lower  in  price  and  is  best  utilized  either  chopped  or  for  slow 
cooking.  It  makes  inferior  steak  but  is  a  good  meat  for  a  pot  roast  or  for  cooking  in  a  casserole. 
It  is  sometimes  corned.  The  round  makes  the  best  flavored  beef  tea.  The  housewife  exercises 
economy  in  buying  a  thick  slice  cut  across  the  round — particularly  in  cold  weather.  A  large 
thin  steak  loses  more  juice  in  cooking  than  a  small  thick  one.  The  latter  may  not  look  sufficient, 
but  if  it  is  equal  in  weight,  it  will  serve  as  well.  If  the  thick  round  is  large,  it  will  do  for  two  serv- 
ices.    A  two-inch  cut  from  the  top  of  a  round  of  fine  beef  can  be  broiled  and  sliced  like  a  roast. 


ROUND  STEAK,  browned  —  Round 
steaks  are  usually  pan-broiled.  The 
pan  must  be  very  hot  and  the  cooking 
done  quickly  to  retain  the  juices.  The 
meat  should  not  be  seasoned  until 
after  it  is  cooked.  No  fat  should  be 
added  to  the  pan,  but  the  addition 
of  a  little  butter  to  the  finished  meat 
improves  its  flavor.  Prompt  serving 
is  most  important  with  round  steak 
as  it  toughens  by  standing  even  for 
a  few  minutes.  Round  steak  is  some- 
times cut  in  thin  pieces,  dipped  in 
milk,  then  rolled  in  crumbs  and  fried 
in  beef  fat.  An  economical  method  of 
preparing  round  steak  is  to  pound  flour 
into  it,  then  brown  in  drippings  and 
add  onion  and  soup  stock  or  strained 
tomato,  put  a  light  cover  over  the 
steak  and  simmer  for  forty  or  fifty 
minutes.  If  soup  stock  is  not  at  hand, 
water  flavored  with  beef  extract  and 
catsup    can    be    used.     An    excellent 


substitute  for  breaded  veal  can  be 
prepared  from  the  round,  which 
should  be  thoroughly  pounded,  dipped 
in  egg  and  seasoned  crumbs,  browned 
well  in  fat  and  then  simmered  in  stock 
or  milk  until  it  is  tender. 

BEEF  ROLLS — To  make  little  beef 
rolls,  round  steak  is  cut  into  strips 
and  well  pounded.  Bacon,  onion  or 
olives  and  other  seasonings  may  be 
added  if  desired.  The  beef  rolls  are 
held  in  shape  with  tooth  picks,  floured, 
browned  and  stewed  until  tender. 
They  are  also  served  acceptably  with 
brown  rice.  The  round  can  be  stuffed 
and  baked.  It  is  often  used  for  pot 
roast  or  Swiss  steak.  More  different 
dishes  can  probably  be  made  from  the 
round  than  from  any  other  cut.  The 
so-called  Minute  Steak  of  public 
restaurants  is  a  very  thin  round  steak 
quickly  cooked  and  served  piping  hot. 


OKiJb  moAk. 


ROUND  POT  ROAST 

uonuLfu  aujjJvaunrxk&e? 


Wilson  &  Co. 


28 


II  ■ 


BONELESS  CUTS 

THE  three  cuts  shown  on  this  page  bring  high  prices,  because  they  are  prac- 
tically boneless.  One  can  get  the  same  cuts  from  beef  of  lighter  weight 
at  a  more  reasonable  cost.  The  meat,  because  it  is  tender,  is  easily 
cooked,  and  there  is  no  waste.  These  cuts  combine  economy  and  good  eating. 
The  restaurants  have  for  a  long  time  adopted  the  wise  practice  of  utilizing  this 
meat  of  cheaper  quality.  The  cuts  lack  fat,  which  may  be  added  in  the  cooking, 
but  they  contain  food  value.  The  compact  cuts  prove  most  useful  for  the  woman 
whose  time  is  limited,  and  who,  therefore,  finds  it  impossible  to  give  much  time 
to  cooking. 

In  the  Fall,  when  second  or  third  grade  cattle  are  plentiful,  these  cuts  are  packed 
for  future  use.  Because  housewives  are  not  familiar  with  the  advantages  of 
these  cuts,  the  demand  for  the  fresh  meat  is  not  sufficient  for  the  retailers  to 
handle  all  of  it.  Butchers  will  carry  these  cuts  if  there  is  a  call  for  them.  Women 
should  demand  them. 


BUTT  TENDERLOIN 


REGULAR  ROLL 


SPENCER  ROLL 


DhJUb  maAk. 


a     # 


Wilson  8c  Co. 


V     V 


uoru/w  auaftxi/nt&e' 


29 


fMiscollaneous 
'Boof  fiocipos 


ii  ■ 

=31 


■  The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


SHORT  RIBS  OF  BEEF— Short  ribs 
of  beef  and  browned  potatoes  are  one 
of  the  most  popular  moderate  priced 
dishes  served  in  hotels  and  restaurants. 
Some  butchers  do  not  sell  short  ribs. 
After  they  have  prepared  their  rib 
roast,  they  return  the  short  ribs  to  the 
packer  to  use.  The  price  is  low  enough 
to  offset  the  bone  and  fat,  so  that  the 
dish  furnishes  food  value  in  a  very 
palatable  form.  The  ribs  should  be 
separated  and  can  be  cooked  in  pot 
roast  fashion,  with  or  without  water, 
for  several  hours  with  good  results,  but 
the  best  method  of  cooking  is  to  simmer 
until  tender  in  a  small  amount  of  water, 
and  brown  them  afterwards. 
For  three  ribs,  weighing  a  pound  and 
one-half  each,  allow  three  cups  of 
water  and  two  teaspoons  of  salt.  If 
convenient,  tie  a  little  garlic,  parsley 
and  green  pepper  in  a  piece  of  netting 
and  put  in  the  water.  Simmer  about 
three  hours  in  a  tightly  covered  kettle. 
The  meat  should  be  turned  at  the  end 
of  the  first  hour,  and  the  seasoning 
removed.  Simmer  longer  if  the  meat  is 
not  perfectly  tender  at  the  end  of  three 
hours.  Potatoes  may  be  parboiled 
and  added  to  the  meat  during  the  last 
part  of  the  cooking.  Place  the  meat, 
well  drained,  in  a  shallow  roasting  pan 
and  surround  with  the  potatoes.  If 
boiled  potatoes  are  used,  dip  each  one 
in  the  rich  liquid  to  coat  them  with  fat. 
Season  with  a  little  salt,  and  brown  all 
in  a  hot  oven  for  about  half  an  hour 
or  over  a  gas  flame  for  about  twenty 
minutes.  Remove  part  of  the  fat  from 
the  top  of  the  liquid  and  thicken  the 
balance  to  make  a  rich,  brown  gravy. 

QUICK  MEAT  LOAF 

$4  pound  round  or  some  other  solid 
meat  run  through  meat  grinder 
twice 

24  cup  softened  bread 

1  beaten  egg 

Salt  and  pepper 

Lemon  juice 

A  little  nutmeg 

Onion  juice 

Add  the  bread  mixture  to  the  meat. 

Shape  in  a  bowl  and  sprinkle  well  with 

flour.       Melt    a    tablespoon    each    of 

butter  and  oleomargarine  in  a  frying 


•added  to  bread 


pan,  put  in  a  sliced  onion,  cover  and 
cook  slowly,  until  the  onion  is  a  light 
brown;  remove  the  onion;  put  the 
meat  loaf  into  the  hot  pan  with  the 
floured  side  down.  Cover  and  cook 
for  ten  minutes,  then  sprinkle  the  top 
with  flour,  turn  carefully,  and  cook 
for  five  minutes  longer.  Lift  the  meat 
loaf  on  to  a  platter  with  a  cake  turner, 
place  the  cooked  onion  on  top  and 
pour  over  the  juice  remaining  in  the 
pan.  This  meat  loaf  can  be  served 
either  hot  or  cold. 

POTTED  HOMINY  AND  BEEF— 

Hominy  is  excellent  to  use  as  part  of 
a  one-dish  dinner  if  you  have  a  fire 
in  your  stove  so  that  you  can  cook  it 
for  a  long  time,  or  use  a  fireless  cooker. 
Heat  one  and  one-half  quarts  of  water 
to  boiling;  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt 
and  two  cups  of  hominy  which  has 
been  soaked  over  night.  Cook  in  a 
double  boiler  for  four  hours  or  in  the 
fireless  cooker  over  night.  This  makes 
five  cups.  Hominy  is  excellent  com- 
bined with  dried,  canned  or  fresh  fish,  or 
meat  and  vegetable  left-overs  may  be 
used.  Here  is  one  combination :  Two 
cups  medium  white  sauce,  four  pota- 
toes, two  cups  carrots,  five  cups  cooked 
hominy,  one-fourth  pound  dried  beef, 
one  teaspoon  salt.  Cut  the  potatoes  and 
carrots  into  dice,  mix  all  the  materials 
in  a  baking  dish  and  bake  for  one  hour. 

DRIED  BEEF — Dried  beef  in  glass 
is  another  form  of  meat  for  occasional 
use.  The  salty  flavor  offers  a  change. 
Dried  beef  requires  no  cooking,  and 
is  always  ready  for  the  picnic  basket  or 
for  the  regular  luncheon.  It  is  accept- 
able for  the  home  table  either  served 
cold  or  in  a  creamed  sauce,  with 
potatoes  or  other  vegetables.  Drying 
renders  the  flesh  quite  dense,  so  strong 
heat  must  be  avoided  in  cooking  dried 
beef.  Simple  methods  are  best.  An 
easy  and  palatable  dish  is  prepared  by 
first  melting  two  tablespoons  of  oleo- 
margarine in  a  saucepan,  and  heating 
a  cupful  of  meat  in  it.  Two  table- 
spoons of  flour  are  then  stirred  in  care- 
fully and  a  cup  of  water  or  light  stock 
added.  When  the  sauce  is  smooth, 
season  with  pepper  and  serve  at  once 
on  toast  or  with  potatoes. 


3kU>  mxxAk 


Wilson  &  Co.! 


llouA.  ouosua/ntee 


30 


Recipes 

Jbr 

By -Products 


The   "Wilson    Label    Protects    Your  Table  "m 


BEEF  SWEETBREADS— The  sweet- 
bread of  the  calf  is  an  expensive 
delicacy.  The  beef  sweetbread  is 
moderate  in  price,  and  if  cooked  care- 
fully may  be  utilized  for  many  choice 
dishes.  The  beef  sweetbread  should  be 
washed  as  soon  as  it  is  brought  into 
the  house,  and  soaked  in  cold  water  for 
an  hour  or  more.  It  may  then  be 
simmered  until  tender,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  salt,  a  little  bay  leaf,  a  little 
onion  and  a  slice  of  lemon.  It  may 
also  be  steamed,  in  which  case  the 
seasoning  is  placed  on  top  of  the 
sweetbread.  As  soon  as  the  sweetbread 
has  become  tender  it  is  placed  in  cold 
water,  so  that  it  will  chill  and  become 
firm.  Preliminary  simmering  is  always 
necessary,  no  matter  what  methods  of 
final  cooking  are  used.  Sweetbreads 
must  always  be  carefully  handled  to 
completely  remove  the  membrane  and 
all  unsightly  portions.  Sweetbreads 
may  be  separated  into  sections,  shred- 
ded with  a  knife  and  fried  in  beef  fat, 
and  then  served  with  any  sauce  pre- 
ferred, either  white,  brown,  tomato  or 
combination. 

Popular  and  delicious  salad  is  made  by 
substituting  sweetbread  for  chicken, 
and  serving  with  the  usual  dressings, 
either  celery,  hard-boiled  eggs,  lettuce 
and  mayonnaise  or  other  dressings. 
Sweetbreads  are  particularly  delicious 
served  in  scooped-out,  chilled  tomatoes, 
and  in  the  season  when  tomatoes  are 
plentiful,  this  dish  is  not  expensive. 
Sweetbreads  make  a  fine  luncheon 
dish  if  served  in  combination  with  peas 
and  with  the  addition  of  a  creamy 
sauce.  They  may  also  be  served  in  a 
border  of  boiled  rice,  mashed  potatoes, 
or  with  small  hot  biscuits.  Sweetbreads 
answer  in  place  of  veal  in  any  made 
dish,  as  their  delicate  flavor  lends  itself 
well  to  various  seasonings  and  sauces. 


BEEF  TONGUE  IN  CASSEROLE— 

Wash  a  fresh  beef  tongue  quickly, 
cover  it  with  boiling  salted  water,  cook 
gently  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half  or 
until  tender.  Remove  all  the  skin  and 
unsightly  portions,  (the  bits  of  meat 
can  be  used  later  for  hash)  place  in  a 


casserole  with  a  cupful  of  sliced  carrots 
to  which  is  added  minced  onion,  celery 
and  parsley.  Thicken  stock  enough  to 
cover  the  vegetables  with  fat  and 
flour,  season  well  and  place  the  dish  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Remove  the  cover  of 
the  casserole  after  an  hour's  cooking 
and  allow  a  half  hour  longer  so  that 
the  meat  will  brown  slightly.  Some 
like  a  sour  sauce  served  with  tongue. 


BEEF  HEART— The  heart  from  good 
beef  furnishes  considerable  food  value 
at  a  moderate  cost.  It  should  first  be 
thoroughly  washed.  The  arteries  and 
veins  are  then  cut  out,  and  the  heart 
washed  again  to  free  it  from  blood. 
The  heart  is  usually  stuffed  to  fill  it 
out  and  to  improve  its  shape,  as  well 
as  to  extend  the  service  of  the  meat. 
Bread  toast  or  cracker  crumbs  may  be 
used.  Finely  cut  onion  and  parsley, 
and  a  few  of  the  savory  herbs  may  be 
added  to  the  bread  crumbs  if  desired. 
Salt  and  pepper  should  be  used  plenti- 
fully for  seasoning.  Beef  fat  from  some 
other  cut  may  be  added  to  enrich  the 
heart.  Add  a  small  amount  of  water 
(the  soft  dressing  becomes  softer  from 
moisture  during  the  cooking),  and  put 
the  dressing  into  the  opening.  The 
flavor  of  this  dressing  will  be  increased 
if,  instead  of  putting  the  fat  into  it,  it 
is  sauted  with  a  little  fat.  Sew  up  the 
end  of  the  heart  loosely,  to  allow  for 
swelling,  and  sprinkle  with  seasoned 
flour.  Use  either  a  frying  pan  or  an 
iron  kettle  and  brown  the  heart  in 
pork  fat  or  drippings.  The  cooking 
can  then  be  finished  in  the  kettle  with 
the  addition  of  enough  water  to  partly 
cover,  or  the  heart  can  be  transferred 
to  a  casserole  or  baking  dish,  water 
added  and  the  cooking  completed  in 
the  oven.  In  either  case  the  liquid 
should  be  slightly  thickened,  and  the 
heart  turned  several  times  during  the 
cooking.  The  heart  must  be  basted 
every  twenty  minutes  if  it  is  cooked 
in  an  open  baker.  Onions,  carrots  and 
cut  celery  added  to  the  dish,  make  a 
pleasing  combination.  Meat  of  such 
close  texture  requires  long,  slow  cook- 
ing to  make  it  tender.  If  the  cooking 
is  right,  the  result  will  be  excellent. 


OhJUb  maAk 


Wilson  &  Co. 


uauA*  aujafvaurJutA 


31 


FORE  QUARTER 


1    NECK 


2  WHOLE  CHUCK 

1 .  5th  rib  roast 

2.  Chuck  steaks 

3.  Pot  roast 

4.  Clod 

3  FORE  SHANK 


4  BRISKET 

5  PLATE 

1.  Navel 

2.  Rib  ends 

6  RIB 

1 .  1 1  th  and  1 2th  rib  roast 

2.  9th  and  10th  rib  roast 

3 .  7th  and  8th  rib  roast 

4.  6th  rib  roast 


A-A — Portic 
line 
quart  ( 
below 
quart* 


OhiJb  mafvk. 


Wilson  8c 


32 


!■■ 


HIND  QUARTER 


ibove  this 

the    hind 

a/hile  that 

the    fore 


7    FLANK 

1 .  Flank  steak 

2.  Stew 

LOIN 

1 .  Butt  end  sirloin 

2.  Wedge  bone  sirloin 

3.  Round  bone  sirloin 
4-5.     Flat  bone  steaks 
6.     Pin  bone  steak 
7-15.     Porterhouse 
16-18.     Club  steaks 


9 
10 


11 


RUMP 

ROUND 

1 .  .  First  cut  round  steak 

2-13.     Round  steaks 

14.  Knuckle  soup  bone 

15.  Pot  roast. 

HIND  SHANK 
16-17.     Soup  bones 
18.     Hock  soup  bone 


3!  uoruft*  au/3Axi/n±ee ' 


33 


Recipes 

for 

Jgft-OOe 


rs 


■  The   Wilson    Label    Protects    Your  Table 


It  is  necessary  to  prepare  left-overs  with  care  as  over-cooking  makes  meat  difficult  to  digest. 
Meat  prepared  for  left-overs  should  be  sliced  thin,  chopped  or  ground  finely.     Any  sauce  must 
be  thoroughly  cooked  before  meat  is  added.     A  second  cooking  of  meat  is  not  advised,  only  a 
thorough  heating  or  browning. 


CECILS  WITH  TOMATO   SAUCE 

1  cup  cold  roast  beef  or  rare  steak 
finely  chopped 

Salt  and  pepper 
Onion  juice 
Worcestershire  sauce 

2  tablespoons  melted  oleomargarine 
Yolk  1  egg  slightly  beaten 

Season  beef  with  salt,  pepper,  onion 
juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Mix 
in  remaining  ingredients,  shape  in  the 
form  of  croquettes.  Roll  in  flour,  egg 
and  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain 
and  serve  with  tomato  sauce  or  heated 
tomato  catsup. 

BEEF  HEART  MEAT  LOAF— Good 
meat  loaf  may  be  made  from  left-over 
meat  heart,  by  chopping  it  up  very  fine 
with  a  little  cooked  bacon  or  salt  pork. 
It  is  then  seasoned  well,  and  mixed 
with  an  equal  amount  of  boiled  rice. 
It  should  be  steamed  until  heated 
through  and  then  served  with  a  savory 
tomato  sauce.  It  can  also  be  chilled 
and  sliced. 

Left-over  beef  heart  may  be  sliced  or 
minced  and  served  with  gravy.  It  can 
also  be  served  cold  in  thin  slices  with 
a  meat  relish,  in  which  case  beaten 
eggs  should  be  added  to  the  dressing 
to  hold  it  intact. 

COLD    MEATS    GLAZED  — Meats 

that  have  been  cooked  specially  to 
serve  cold — such  as  boiled  tongue, 
braised  corn  beef,  etc.,  may  be  en- 
hanced for  service  by  a  thick  jellied 
coating.  This  coating  differs  from 
jellied  stock  since  the  basis  is  a  sauce 
such  as  brown,  tomato  or  white  sauce — 
enriched  with  egg  yolks.  To  each  cup- 
ful of  this  hot  mixture,  add  a  table- 
spoon of  granulated  gelatine  softened 
in  cold  water.  Meat  should  be  covered 
thickly  as  the  sauce  stiffens.  Bits  of 
parsley,  green  peppers  or  pimento 
strips  may  be  added  for  a  garnish. 
With  a  little  practice,  attractive  dishes 
for  company  occasions  can  easily  be 
prepared. 


DRY  OR  SUMMER  SAUSAGES— 

a  happy  compromise  between  fresh 
and  canned  meat.  These  meats  may 
be  served  alone  or  may  be  used 
in  preparing  left-over  dishes.  Many 
housekeepers  are  familiar  only  with 
the  pork  sausage  which  is  so  popular  on 
winter  mornings.  They  do  not  know 
of  the  newer  varieties.  Summer 
sausage  is  always  ready  for  use  at  a 
moment's  notice,  and  as  it  is  con- 
centrated in  bulk  and  highly  sea- 
soned, it  keeps  better  than  any  meat 
not  canned.  Foreign  nations  have 
long  used  summer  sausage  as  a  staple 
food;  but  only  in  recent  years  have 
many  varieties  been  made  successfully 
in  this  country.  Summer  sausage  made 
under  Government  inspection,  and 
carrying  the  brand  of  a  reliable  com- 
pany, will  suit  particular  people.  The 
meats  are  carefully  blended  and  skill- 
fully seasoned,  and  many  combinations 
are  offered  to  suit  different  tastes. 
Summer  sausage  comes  in  convenient 
form  for  the  picnic  basket,  or  for  the 
use  of  campers.  Summer  sausage 
sliced  cold  and  surrounded  with  a 
savory  potato  salad,  is  delicious.  It 
can  be  lightly  chopped  and  served  on 
toast  with  the  addition  of  a  white 
sauce.  It  is  often  minced  and  blended 
with  left-overs  to  add  flavor  or  else 
served  sliced  and  crisped  in  the  frying 
pan  with  potatoes.  A  very  savory 
omelet  can  be  made  by  the  addition  of 
summer  sausage  chopped  fine.  A 
delicious  sandwich  can  be  made  by 
mixing  chopped  summer  sausage  with 
butter  and  spreading  it  on  crackers. 
A  plain  lettuce  salad  with  a  little  sum- 
mer sausage  mixed  with  the  dressing 
takes  on  new  character.  Cabbage  and 
potato  salad  with  bits  of  sausage  added 
have  a  perfect  right  to  put  on  airs, 
for  they  are  the  "something  different" 
which  every  housewife  likes  to  serve. 
The  emergency  shelf  is  never  com- 
pletely stocked  unless  it  contains  one 
or  two  varieties  of  dried  sausage. 


OhiJb  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


-=ra —  — am- 


ucu/i  cuLa/vam&ee 


34 


m 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB  CUTS 

The  meat  should  be  of  a  deep  red  color  and  firm  to  the  touch — the  fat  creamy- 
white  and  solid. 

1  LEG Roasts 

2  LOIN .Roasts  and  Chops 

3  RIBS  (or  hotel  rack) Roasts  and  Chops 

4  BREAST Roasts  and  Stews 

5  CHUCK  (Shoulder) Roasts  and  Stews 

6  SHANK Broth,  Soups  and  Stews 

7  NECK Broth,  Soups  and  Stews 

IITrl*lfF:'m*t'H   \icr\jj\j  cuiaAa/rxkjtC 


dYvJb  maAk 


35 


cPelection 
Mutton 


The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


THE  dividing  line  between  lamb  and  mutton  is  not  based  wholly 
upon  age;  a  well  bred  and  well  fed  animal,  twelve  or  eighteen 
months  old,  may  still  belong  in  the  lamb  class,  while  a  yearling 
of  rangy  stock,  which  has  been  poorly  fed,  yields  meat  of  an  inferior 
grade  of  mutton. 

The  best  grade  of  mutton  consists  of  fat,  heavy  meat.  Light 
and  flabby  meat  is  not  very  palatable.  Lamb  rarely  is  an  econonv 
ical  meat  to  serve.  The  relative  difference  in  food  value  between 
lamb  and  mutton  is  the  same  as  between  veal  and  beef. 

Mature  meat  furnishes  more  nutrition,  but  has  a  more  pro- 
nounced flavor.  Lamb  has  a  delicate  taste  and  the  fat  is  not  as 
strong  as  it  is  in  mutton. 

The  consumption  of  ewe  lambs  should  be  discouraged,  as  it 
adds  greatly  to  the  cost  of  properly  aged  meat  and  contributes  to 
the  scarcity  of  wool.  The  mutton  flavor,  to  which  many  object, 
is  largely  due  to  the  outside  fat,  so  that  this  fat,  together  with  any 
particles  of  heavy  skin,  should  be  removed  before  cooking.  The 
meat  should  be  of  a  deep  red  color  and  firm  to  the  touch;  the  fat, 
creamy,  white  and  solid.  Mutton  absorbs  odors  easily,  so  it  must 
be  kept  in  a  cool  place  under  proper  conditions.  Mutton  may  be 
placed  in  spiced  vinegar  or  in  a  marinade  and  kept  in  it  for  some  time 
to  absorb  the  flavor  and  to  become  more  tender. 

The  forequarter  of  mutton  is  cheaper  than  the  hindquarter, 
as  the  amount  of  bone  is  greater  and  the  flesh  is  less  tender;  but 
the  forequarter  has  more  flavor  and  so  is  excellent  for  stews  and 
soup.  As  more  of  the  fat  of  mutton  dissolves  in  cooking  than  does 
the  fat  of  beef,  it  is  desirable  to  skim  off  a  portion  of  this  fat  before 
serving  the  stew. 

A  shoulder  roast,  boned,  stuffed  and  rolled,  is  appetizing  served 
hot  and  the  meat  will  slice  well  when  cold.  The  rib  chops  are 
dainty,  but  very  expensive.  The  loin  chops  serve  better,  as  they 
have  a  greater  amount  of  meat  on  them. 

A  leg  of  mutton  may  be  boiled  or  roasted.  The  saddle  from  the 
two  sides  of  the  loin  furnishes  a  choice  roast  for  special  occasions, 
as  does  also  the  crown  of  lamb,  which  is  made  from  the  ribs  on  each 
side,  cut  in  the  form  of  a  circle. 

Mutton  should  be  served  hot  in  every  detail,  as  mutton  fat 
hardens  at  a  higher  temperature  than  other  fats.  Fat  usualK 
calls  for  an  acid  to  add  flavor;  hence,  the  use  of  capers,  mint  sauce, 
tart  jelly,  and  spiced  fruit  with  mutton  or  lamb.  A  bit  of  garlic 
inserted  in  a  leg  of  mutton  before  roasting,  improves  the  flavor. 
Herbs  well  rubbed  into  the  surface  and  the  whole  wrapped  in  cloth 
before  cooking  to  retain  the  flavor,  produces  boiled  mutton  that  is 
unusual. 


J* M_ 


dhiJb  TrtaAk 


Wilson  &  Co. 


acvJi  auafua'niee' 


36 


LAMB  AND  MUTTON  CUTS 


! 


FRENCH  RIB  LAMB  CHOPS 


LOIN  LAMB  CHOPS 


LEG  OF  LAMB 


ENGLISH  MUTTON  CHOPS 


0KJUt>  maAk. 


%      A     # 


Wilson  &  Co. 


WW 


LOIN  ROAST 


lutuJu  Gjujjfx/obmkejz 


37 


^Mutton 
RecijbQs 


The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


SUGGESTED  USES  OF  LAMB 
BY-PRODUCTS  — Pickled  lamb 
tongues  are  popular  served  cold,  and 
the  tongues,  boiled  and  baked,  and 
served  with  a  sauce,  are  delicate 
and  savory.  The  kidneys  are  broiled 
with  bacon,  en  broch  ctte  (sliced  and 
strung  on  a  skewer  before  broiling),  or 
else  they  can  be  stewed  with  onions 
and  carrots  in  the  English  fashion. 
The  heart  may  be  stuffed,  boiled  and 
browned  with  salt  pork.  The  liver  is 
usually  fried  in  the  same  manner  as 
calf's  liver.  The  brains  are  sometimes 
substituted  for  calf's  brains  in  made 
dishes,  or  else  they  are  scrambled 
with  eggs  or  they  may  be  breaded 
and  fried.  It  is  best  to  simmer  or  steam 
the  brains  first  to  make  them  tender. 
The  addition  of  a  little  lemon  juice 
will  whiten  them  and  make  them  firm. 

MUTTON  IN  CASSEROLE— Wipe 

the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth — cut  it 
in  uniform  pieces,  and  roll  in  seasoned 
flour.  Brown  part  of  the  meat  in  hot 
drippings,  then  place  all  the  meat  in  a 
casserole  (or  a  kettle  if  it  is  to  be 
cooked  on  the  range  instead  of  in  the 
oven) .  Add  carrots,  onion  and  parsley, 
and  cover  with  cold  water  if  a  rich 
broth  is  desired.  Cook  very  slowly 
until  the  meat  is  quite  tender.  Re- 
move the  bone,  which  will  slip  easily 
from  the  meat  when  the  cooking  is 
finished.  Drain  the  liquid  off  and 
thicken  with  flour.  Pour  the  sauce 
back  over  the  meat  and  serve  piping 
hot.  Dumplings  may  be  added,  or 
potatoes  put  in  with  the  meat  when  it 
is  partly  cooked. 

STUFFED    LEG    OF    MUTTON— 

Prepare  the  following  dressing:  Take 
two  cups  of  soft  bread,  which  has  been 
soaked  in  cold  water  until  well  moist- 
ened, and  then  all  the  possible  liquid 
pressed  out.  Season  the  bread  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  little  thyme 
or  sweet  marjoram,  together  with  a 
little  onion,  some  fat  and  a  beaten  egg. 
Place  this  dressing  in  the  boned  meat, 
skewering  the  ends  into  shape.  Have 
the  oven  very  hot  and  place  the  meat 


in  a  pan.  When  the  surface  is  seared, 
reduce  the  heat,  dredge  the  meat 
lightly  with  flour,  and  add  any  other 
left-over  seasoning,  and  baste  every 
fifteen  minutes  unless  a  covered  roast- 
ing pan  is  used.  A  six-pound  roast  will 
require  from  one  hour  and  a  half  to 
two  hours. 

BROWNED  BREAST  OF  MUTTON 

— Cook  the  meat  in  a  small  quantity 
of  water  until  very  tender,  seasoning 
it  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  little  garlic 
and  parsley.  Drain  the  meat  well,  put 
it  into  a  shallow  pan  or  baking  dish 
and  brown  in  a  hot  oven.  Make  a 
thickened  gravy  from  the  stock,  color- 
ing it  with  a  little  prepared  caramel  if 
desired.  Serve  meat  with  boiled  rice 
and  the  gravy.  Carrots  may  be  boiled 
with  the  meat  and  browned  afterwards 
with  a  little  sugar  and  meat  dripping 
if  desired. 

HOT  POT  OF  MUTTON  AND 
BARLEY 

1  pound  mutton 

yi  cup  pearl  barley 

1  tablespoon  salt 

4  potatoes 

3  onions 

Celery  tops  or  other  seasoning  herbs 

Cut  the  mutton  in  small  pieces,  and 
brown  with  the  onion  in  fat  cut  from 
meat.  This  will  help  make  the  meat 
tender  and  improve  the  flavor.  Pour 
this  into  a  covered  saucepan.  Add  two 
quarts  water  and  the  barley.  Simmer 
for  one  and  one-half  hours.  Then  add 
the  potatoes  cut  in  quarters,  seasoning 
herbs,  and  seasoning,  and  cook  one- 
half  hour  longer. 

MUTTON  STEW  WITH  BARLEY 

— Cut  meat  from  the  neck  or  breast 
into  small  pieces  and  put  into  a  kettle 
with  enough  water  to  cover.  Use 
about  a  cup  and  a  half  of  water  to  a 
pound  of  meat.  Add  onions,  carrot, 
salt  and  pepper.  For  each  pint  of 
liquid  add  a  third  of  a  cup  of  pearl 
barley.  Simmer  gently  for  two  to 
three  hours. 


OhiJb  moAk, 


Wilson  &  Co. 


aaxjJh  euLOftxi/nt&e 


38 


■  41 


PORK  CUTS 

1  HAM — It  is  more  economical  to  buy  a  whole  ham.  The  butt  can  be 
baked,  the  center  sliced  —  fried  or  broiled,  the  shank  boiled,  and  the 
rind  used  for  seasoning. 

2  LOIN — Roasts  and  chops. 

3  BELLY — Used  for  bacon.  The  best  grade  of  bacon,  "Certified,"  brand 
is  the  heart  of  this  cut. 

4  FAT  BACK — Smoked  or  pickled. 

5  SPARE  RIBS. 

6  PICNIC  BUTT  (Shoulder) — Roasts,  steaks,  chops,  hams. 

7  HOCK— Stewed  and  pickled. 

8  BOSTON  BUTT— Steaks  and  roasts. 

9  CLEAR  PLATE— Smoked,  salted,  pickled. 

10      JOWL — Used  for  cheap  bacon  and  generally  cooked  with  baked  beans. 

,_%      A      # 
*0KiJb  rrtahK. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


W^F 


lutuA  auuana/ni&e 


39 


PORK  CUTS 


Pork  contains  more  fat  than  any  other  meats.  Then,  too,  the  method  of  cut- 
ting a  side  of  pork  differs  from  that  of  other  meats.  Hams  may  be  purchased 
fresh  or  cured.  Shoulders  are  corned,  smoked,  or  they,  too,  may  be  purchased 
fresh.     Fat  salt  pork  comes  from  the  back  on  either  side  of  the  backbone. 


SHOULDER  ROAST 


mm 


m 


LOIN  ROAST 


FRESH  HAM 


LOIN   CHOPS 


OhiJb  TnxxAk 


Wilson  &  Co. 


lutWv  au/Uuami&e 


40 


■  The   Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


CROWN  OF  ROAST  PORK 

3  pounds  of  ribs  or  loin  of  pork 
Flour,  salt  and  pepper,  mixed 

Select  two  loins  containing  ribs. 
Trim  the  rib  ends  to  make  them  even 
without  making  them  too  long.  Dredge 
with  seasoned  flour.  Place  in  baking 
pan,  rib  ends  down;  also  put  in  the 
pork  trimmings.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
two  hours.  Baste  every  15  minutes 
with  the  drippings.  When  done,  re- 
move to  heated  platter,  ribs  up.  Sur- 
round with  browned  potatoes  and 
small  baked  apples,  alternating.  Paper 
frills  should  garnish  the  rib  ends  and  a 
large  bunch  of  parsley  should  be 
placed  in  the  center. 

CHOP  SUEY 

Meat  from  8  pork  chops 

2  large  onions 

2  cups  mushrooms 

1  stalk  strong  celery 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

4  teaspoons  sugar 
X  cup  olive  oil 

3  slices  bacon  cut  fine  and  fried 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  cup  warm  water 

Cut  meat,  mushrooms,  celery  and 
onions  in  small  pieces.  Chop  onions 
if  preferred.  Blend  cornstarch  and 
sugar  in  warm  water;  saute  meat  in 
olive  oil  or  bacon  fat  until  well 
browned,  then  add  vegetables.  Last 
add  water.  Cook  one-half  hour, 
stirring  briskly,  then  add  Worcester- 
shire sauce. 


Serve  with  steamed  rice, 
suitable  one-piece  meal. 


This  is    a 


SOUTHERN  POT  ROAST 

1  small  pork  shoulder 

1  medium  onion  sliced 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes 
Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour 

Fry  out  the  trimmings  in  pan  suitable 
for  the  roast.  Remove  cracklings  and 
all  fat  leaving  but  one  tablespoon. 
Add  flour.  Brown  slowly.  Add  onion. 
Brown  slightly  then  add  tomatoes. 
Season  the  meat,  and  add.  Cook  in 
fireless  cooker  four  hours. 


BREADED  PORK  CHOPS 

6  pork  loin  chops 
Bread  crumbs 
Salt  and  pepper 

Wipe  chops.  Season.  Dip  in  bread 
crumbs.  Cook  slowly  in  small  amount 
of  heated  fat,  till  tender.  Brown  well 
on  one  side  before  turning.  Turn  and 
brown  on  other  side.  Remove  to 
heated  platter  and  garnish  with  fried 
apples. 

BAKED   SPARERIBS  WITH 
APPLES 

Wipe  fresh  spareribs  carefully  with  a 
cloth  which  has  been  wrung  out  of  hot 
water.  Arrange  the  meat  in  a  dripping 
pan  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  ■  which 
should  have  the  temperature  lowered 
gradually.  Baste  with  drippings  occa- 
sionally. When  the  meat  is  well 
browned  place  apples,  which  have  been 
cored,  in  the  pan  with  the  meat.  Fill 
the  cavity  of  each  apple  with  brown 
sugar  and  let  bake  until  soft.  In  serv- 
ing, arrange  the  apples  as  a  border 
around  the  spareribs. 

PORK  SAUSAGES 

One  of  the  easiest  dishes  for  the  house- 
wife to  prepare  is  pork  sausages.  To 
fry  link  sausages  cover  with  cold  water 
and  gradually  bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Pour  off  water  and  fry  to  a  rich 
brown,  turning  frequently  and  being 
careful  not  to  pierce  with  a  fork. 
After  the  sausages  have  been  prepared 
in  this  way  there  are  many  ways  in 
which  they  can  be  served  which  makes 
them  suitable  for  a  luncheon  as  well  as 
for  breakfast.  They  may  be  served 
with  fried  or  baked  apples,  cabbage, 
onions,  squash,  turnips,  rice,  hominy, 
baked  beans,  and  with  potatoes  of  all 
kinds. 

Sausage  meat  which  may  be  pur- 
chased already  made  in  patties,  in  bulk 
form  or  in  bags,  can  be  used  in  a  great 
variety  of  ways.  It  may  be  prepared 
with  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and  raw 
eggs  to  hold  it  together  and  baked  till 
brown;  or  it  may  be  used  in  combina- 
tion with  other  meats  in  preparing 
meat  loaf.  Then,  too,  when  mixed 
with  bread  crumbs  it  makes  a  delicious 
stuffing  for  fowls. 


OhJUfe)  moAk 


Wilson  &  Co. 


^UA-fl*"**™***" 


41 


Jiavx 
'Recipes 


The    V/ilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


BAKED   HAM  WITH  APPLES 

2-pound  slice  ham  cut  yi  inch  thick 
2  large  baking  apples 
Brown  sugar 

Trim  rind  from  ham  and  keep  for 
seasoning  purposes.  Remove  fat 
Mince  or  put  through  food  chopper. 
Sprinkle  the  ham  with  brown  sugar 
and  then  spread  on  the  minced  fat. 
Place  in  baking  pan.  Core  the  apples, 
cut  in  two  crosswise  and  place  on  ham. 
Sprinkle  apples  with  brown  sugar. 
Pour  hot  water  in  pan.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

HAM  EN  CASSEROLE 

Slice  of  ham  cut  1  >£  inches  thick 
lyi  cups  of  potatoes 
2  cups  milk 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.  Slice  thin. 
Soak  in  cold  water  \yi  hours.  Drain. 
Put  ham  in  casserole.  Cover  with 
potatoes.  Pour  over  the  milk.  Cook 
in  moderate  oven  1  hour  uncovered. 
Cook  1  hour  more,  covered.  Serve 
in  casserole. 

SOUTHERN  HAM 

Put  a  slice  of  ham  in  a  casserole. 
Sprinkle  over  with  brown  sugar  and 
dot   with   oleomargarine.     Pour   over 

1  cup  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  an  hour.    Serve  in  casserole  dish. 

HAM  A  LA  KING 

2  cups  ham  cooked  and  diced 
2  cups  medium  white  sauce 

2  hard  cooked  eggs  sliced 
1  cup  mushrooms  quartered 
1  pimento  cut  in  narrow  strips 
1  minced  green  pepper 

Heat  the  white  sauce.  Add  green 
pepper,  pimento,  mushrooms  and  ham. 
The  egg  may  be  used  as  a  garnish  or 
added  with  the  other  ingredients. 


ARKANSAS  HAM 

Cook  thin  slices  of  ham  in  hot  frying 
pan  until  slightly  browned.  Remove 
to  hot  platter.  To  the  fat  in  the  pan 
add  the  following  mixture  well  beaten: 

3  tablespoons  vinegar 
1  yi  teaspoons  mustard 

1  yi  teaspoons  sugar 
Paprika 

When  mixture  is  thoroughly  heated, 
pour  over  ham  and  serve  at  once. 
Ham  cut  about  one-half  inch  thick  is 
sometimes  preferred  to  the  thin  slices. 

BOILED  HAM  WITH 
LIMA  BEANS 

Examine  the  ham  carefully  and  trim 
off  bits  of  hard  skin  around  the  end  of 
the  bone.  Wash  very  thoroughly, 
place  in  kettle,  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Cook  slowly  until  tender, 
allowing  about  one  hour  for  every 
three  pounds.  When  cooked  serve  in 
thin  slices  with  fresh  or  canned  lima 
beans  as  a  border  around  the  ham. 
Potatoes  may  be  boiled  with  the  ham, 
by  placing  in  the  kettle  about  one  half 
hour  before  the  ham  is  ready  to  serve. 
This  makes  a  good  one-dish  meal. 

STUFFED   HAM  ROLL 

Slice  of  ham  X-inch  thick,  cut  from 
center  of  ham 

2  cups  moistened  bread  crumbs 
1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

1  cup  tomato  juice 

Spread  bread  crumbs  over  ham; 
sprinkle  parsley  over  it.  Roll  up  and 
tie.  Pour  over  tomato  juice,  adding  a 
little  hot  water.  Place  in  baking  pan, 
basting  occasionally  during  the  two 
hours  usually  required  for  the  baking 
process. 


DKiJt)  moAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


ucrvJx,  au£L/ba/r\l&e' 


42 


■  The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table  "m 


BROILED  BACON  is  at  once  the  most  easily  digested  and  the 
most  savory  of  all  forms  of  cooked  fat.  Choice  bacon  of  a 
dependable  brand  is  uniform  both  in  its  quality  and  its  pro- 
portion of  fat  and  lean.  Bacon  is  one  of  the  few  meats  that  can 
be  kept  on  hand  constantly  and  cooked  quickly.  It  is  one  of  the 
few  meats  of  which  people  never  tire.  Sliced  bacon  in  packages 
proves  convenient  in  an  emergency  and  is  unexcelled  in  flavor. 
The  addition  of  a  few  slices  of  bacon  improves  many  meat  and  veg- 
etable dishes.  A  breakfast  of  bacon  and  eggs  will  satisfy  almost 
any  man  and  is  one  of  the  easiest  breakfasts  that  the  cook  can 
prepare. 

Bacon  can  be  cooked  in  several  ways  but  the  best  results  are 
obtained  by  having  the  bacon  cold  and  the  fire  hot.  Bacon  that 
has  stood  in  a  hot  kitchen  becomes  soft  and  will  not  crisp  nicely. 
Broiling  is  the  ideal  method  of  cooking  bacon.  A  fine  wire  rack 
should  be  used  to  hold  the  slices  in  place,  since  the  regulation  broiler 
of  a  gas  range  will  prove  too  large.  Place  the  rack  over  a  pan  to 
catch  the  dripping,  have  a  hot  fire  and  turn  the  bacon  as  soon  as 
one  side  is  lightly  cooked  and  finish  the  browning  quickly.  Place 
the  cooked  bacon  on  pieces  of  soft  paper  and  drain  the  fat  while  it 
is  still  warm. 

When  the  oven  is  in  use,  bacon  can  be  baked  on  the  rack  in  a 
similar  manner.  Some  cooks  prefer  the  following  way  of  frying 
bacon :  Put  boiling  water  in  the  pan  to  cover  the  bottom  and  boil 
the  bacon  quickly  until  the  water  has  cooked  away,  finish  the 
browning  with  dry  heat.  The  quickest  way  to  cook  bacon  is  to 
put  the  slices  in  a  hot  pan,  turning  them  as  soon  as  they  have  browned 
on  one  side.  When  it  is  desired  to  draw  out  the  fat,  use  a  slow  fire. 
Place  the  bacon  in  a  frying  pan  heated  gradually;  frequent  turning 
will  insure  even  cooking,  and  increased  heat  at  the  last  results  in 
crisp  slices. 

Overheated  fat  is  unwholesome,  so  care  must  be  taken  to  avoid 
scorching.  The  drained  fat  that  remains  is  very  useful  in  many 
forms  of  cooking.  It  should  be  strained  and  kept  in  a  cold  place 
where  it  will  be  ready  for  use  in  a  sauce  for  other  meats,  or  in  a 
milk  gravy  for  potatoes  (boiled,  baked  or  re-heated).  It  can  also 
be  used  to  saute  cooked  potatoes,  to  enrich  the  dressing  of  a  potato 
salad,  or  a  bread  stuffing  for  fowl  and  meat. 

Bacon  is  an  economical  meat,  as  every  bit  of  both  fat  and  lean 
is  utilized.  Left-over  bacon  may  be  used  in  sandwiches  or  cut 
up  in  scrambled  eggs,  omelets,  cereals  or  stuffed  eggs.  It  can  be 
crushed  fine  and  sprinkled  over  stewed  potatoes  or  baked  stuffed 
potatoes.  It  can  also  be  sprinkled  on  green  or  lima  beans,  used  in 
a  cream  sauce  for  toast  or  as  a  spread  for  bread. 


OhiJb  truxAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


ucuA.  Quo/va/ntee" 


43 


In  order  to  have  satisfying  and  "balanced"  meals,  certain  food  combinations 
are  necessary.  Methods  of  cooking  as  well  as  the  choice  of  vegetables  served 
with  meat  are  very  important. 

Then,  too,  to  appeal  to  the  appetite  one  must  not  only  cook  well  but  she  must 
serve  food  attractively.  Many  foods  may  be  suitable  from  a  dietetic  standpoint 
but  may  not  please  the  eye  and  so  tempt  the  palate. 

The  suggestions  presented  here  will  surely  be  helpful  to  all. 
ROASTED  OR  BAKED  MEATS    Serve  one  vegetable  from  each  group. 


Kind  of  Meat 

Starchy  Vegetables 

Green  or  Succulent 
Vegetables 

Other  Dishes 

Baked  or  roasted  ribs  of 
beef 

Mashed  potatoes 
Browned   or  glazed 

sweet  potatoes 
Baked  winter  squash 

Beets 

String  beans 
Young  lima  beans 
Asparagus           Corn 
Baked  tomatoes 
Parsnips 

Yorkshire  pudding 

Roast  beef,  sirloin 

Baked  white  potato 
Baked  sweet  potatoes 
Baked  winter  squash 

Asparagus  cuts 

Young  lima  beans 

Brussels  sprouts 

Spinach 

Carrots                Com 

Baked  tomatoes 

Yorkshire  pudding 

Roast  loin  "of  veal 

Boiled  rice-  (used  as 
a  vegetable) 

Spinach 
Cauliflower 
Brussels  sprouts 

Baked  or  roasted  leg  of 
mutton 

Mashed       or       riced 
white  potatoes 

Rice  croquettes 
(served    as   veg- 
etable) 

Mashed  turnips 
Brussels  sprouts 

Brown  sauce 

Saddle  of  mutton 

Peas 
Asparagus  tips 

Plain     baked    maca- 
roni 

Baked  or  roasted  ham 

Southern  sweet  pota- 
toes 

Pan-baked    winter 
squash 

Brussels  sprouts 
Spinach 

Champagne  sauce 
Cider  sauce 

Roasted  loin  of  mutton 

Rice  croquettes 
(served   as  veg- 
etable) 

Tomatoes 

Roasted  fresh  pork 

Potato 

Baked  pumpkin 

Cole  slaw 
Kale 

Apple  sauce 

Baked  fillet  of  beef 

Croquettes  of   white 
or  sweet  potatoes 

Peas 

Mushroom  sauce 
(always) 

Baked  beef  hearts 

Potatoes  cut  in  fancy 
shapes  and  fried  in 
deep  fat 

Peas 
Asparagus  tips 

Baked  sweetbreads 

Peas      with      brown 

sauce 
Peas  with  glazed 

mushrooms 

Brown  sauce 
Mushrooms  and 
cream  sauce 

BROILED 

MEATS 

Broiled  beef  steaks 
For  dinner 

White    potatoes    on 

the  half  shell 
Sweet    potatoes    on 

the  half  shell 
Potato  croquettes 

String  beans 

Peas 

Asparagus 

For  luncheon  or 
supper 

Hashed    brown    po- 
tatoes 
French  fried  potatoes 
Creamed  potatoes 

Celery 

Lettuce  with  French 
dressing 

Broiled  sweetbreads 

Peas 

Rolls 

Broiled  mutton  chops 

Creamed  potatoes 

Peas 

Broiled  ham 
For  dinner 

Browned  mashed  po- 
tatoes 

Cole  slaw 

Fried  Apples 

Broiled  fillet  of  beef 

French  salad 
Asparagus  salad 

Hollandaise  sauce 

OhJUb  mrxhJt 


Wilson  &  Co. 


aavJh  awoJTjasrdt£j£ 


44 


Vegetables  served 
with  5Weats 


The   VSilson.    Label    Protects    Your  Table 


BOILED 

MEATS 

Kind  of  Meat 

Starchy  Vegetables 

Green  or  Succulent 
Vegetables 

Other  Dishes 

Boiled  beef  or  pot  roast 

Boiled  potatoes 
Baked  winter  squash 

Boiled  turnips 
Cabbage 
Stewed  tomatoes 

Boiled  corn  beef 

Boiled  potatoes 

Cabbage 
Kale 
Greens 
Turnips 

Boiled  beef  tongue 

Boiled     rice     (as     a 
vegetable) 

Carrots 

Stewed  raisins 

Boiled  leg  of  mutton 

Boiled     rice     (as  a 
vegetable) 

Stewed  turnips 

Caper  sauce 

Boiled  ham 

Potatoes 

Cabbage 

Apple  sauce 

Boiled  fat  salt  pork 

Navy  beans 

Boiled  cabbage 

Apple  sauce 

MISCELLANEOUS 

MEAT  DISHES 

Rolled  steak 

Baked  sweet  pota- 
toes 

Baked     white     pota- 
toes 

Stewed  turnips 
Carrots 

Tomato  sauce 

Brown  stew 

Stewed      or      baked 
tomatoes 

Dumplings 

Beef  a  la  mode 

Macedoine    of     veg- 
etables 

Brown  sauce 

Liberty  steaks 

Baked  potatoes 
Creamed  potatoes 

Brown  sauce 
Tomato  sauce 
Stewed  mushrooms 

Stuffed  meat 

Mashed  potatoes 

String  beans 

Carrots 

Parsnips 

Creamed  dried  beef 

Baked  potatoes 

Corn  bread 
Toast 

Veal  cutlets 

Rice  balls  (as  a  veg- 
etable) 

Tomato  sauce 
Brown  sauce 

Veal  stew 

Baked  tomatoes 

Dumplings 

Veal  loaf 

For  supper 

Celery 

Tomato        or    apple 
salad  with  mayon- 
naise     or      boiled 
dressing 

Braised  liver 

Potato  puffs 

Mace      and      brown 

sauce 
Garnish   with  curled 

bacon 

Braised  leg  of  mutton 

Rice      (served      sep- 
arately  as   vegeta- 
ble) 

Carrots  and    turnips 
in  dish  with  mut- 
ton 

Brown  sauce 

Braised  shoulder  of 
mutton 

Boiled     rice     (served 
as  vegetable) 

Mashed  turnips 

Irish  stew 

Onions 

Dumplings 

Breaded  mutton  chops 

Potatoes  au  gratin 

Tomato  sauce 

Spring  lamb 

New  potatoes 
Boiled   rice    (as  veg- 
etable) 

Peas 

Asparagus 

Mint  sauce 

COLD  MEATS  (Canned  or  left-over) 

Roast  beef 

Chicory  with  French 
dressing 

Creamed  horseradish 

sauce 
Aspic  Jelly 

Roast  mutton 

Sliced  tomatoes  with 
French    dressing 

Roast  lamb 

Lettuce  and  chopped 
mint   with   French 
dressing 

OhuUb  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co, 


uowl  coLono/ntee' 


45 


■  The   V/ilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


A 


WELL  cooked  meat  can  lose  its  appetizing  appearance  if  it 
is  not  carved  well.  There  are  a  few  points  well  worth  know- 
ing which  are  suggested  in  the  following  outline: 

1.  Type  of  chair:    high  enough  to  sit  and  carve  at, the  table. 

2.  Size  of  platter  large  enough  so  that  the  legs  of  fowl  or  pieces 
of  meat  will  not  fall  on  table  when  cut  off. 

3.  Skewers  and  string  should  be  removed  from  meat  before 
bringing  to  table. 

4.  Large  fowls  should  be  placed  so  that  the  head  of  the  fowl  is 
at  the  left  of  the  carver. 

5.  Small  fowls,  as  squab,  should  be  placed  crosswise  of  platter, 
head  away  from  the  carver. 

6.  Venison  and  mutton  should  be  placed  lengthwise,  heaviest 
end  at  the  left  of  the  carver. 

7.  A  roast  of  ham  or  leg  of  lamb  or  veal:  place  with  thick  end 
toward  the  right  hand  of  the  carver. 

8.  Standing  rib  roast :  place  toward  left  of  the  carver. 

9.  Beefsteak:  .place  tenderloin  nearest  carver,  especially  if  the 
carver  does  not  know  cuts  of  steak. 

10.  To  learn  first  steps  of  carving:  cut  bread  thin  and  even; 
then  try  veal  loaf  or  meat  without  bone.     Cultivate  steady  hand. 

11.  Round  steak:  do  not  remove  bone;  cut  in  right  angles 
to  bone. 

12.  Standing  rib  roast:  cut  away  gristle  between  back  bone 
and  meat.  (Cut  meat  from  rib  or  carve  thin  slices  to  the  rib;  after 
carving  enough  slices  remove  meat  from  rib.) 

13.  Rolled  rib  roast:  place  meat  side  to  platter;  fork  put 
in  side  and  slices  begin  at  right;  should  be  very  thin.  Remove 
skewers  and  string  before  taking  to  the  table. 

14.  Meat  pie :  cut  in  center  to  edge.    If  cup  is  in  centre,  remove. 

15.  Carving  turkey  or  chicken:  if  family  is  small,  one-half 
should  be  carved  at  first  meal.  Begin  at  breast  bone;  cut  slices 
thin.  Cut  enough  white  meat.  Take  collar  (paper)  in  hand  and 
separate  first  and  second  joint;  remove  wing;  do  not  divide  if 
small  family.  Serve  the  dressing  with  a  spoon.  Ask  the  preference 
of  each,  for  dark  or  white  meat;  or  if  a  large  number  are  present 
give  a  little  of  each.    Duck  is  the  hardest  of  all  fowls  to  carve. 


OhiJb  mxxhk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


V     V 


lujWi  Qua/va/nt&e 


*» 


46 


£Kelpful 
mints 


The   Wilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


THERE  are  certain  recognized  limits  in  the  cooking  of  meat 
dishes  for  small  families.  It  is  practically  out  of  the  question 
to  get  a  choice  roast  of  a  weight  less  than  five  pounds.  It  is 
possible  to  make  a  pot  roast  out  of  a  pound  of  meat  if  it  is  rightly 
cooked  in  a  small  close-covered  kettle.  Braised  meat  with  veg- 
etables can  be  satisfactorily  prepared  in  small  amounts  if  cooked 
on  a  rack  in  a  kettle  over  a  low  fire,  or  in  a  covered  roaster  in  a  slow 
oven.  Braised  meat  is  richer  than  stewed  meat,  as  less  water  is 
used  and  the  broth  is  more  concentrated.  No  more  actual  time 
need  be  spent  in  the  kitchen  in  the  longer,  slower  processes  of  cooking 
meat  than  in  the  shorter  methods;  but  an  earlier  start  is  necessary. 
Unless  ample  time  is  allowed  for  cooking,  it  is  useless  to  attempt 
such  dishes,  as  the  materials  will  inevitably  be  wasted,  or  the  results 
poor. 

No  matter  how  slow  the  main  process  is  in  the  cooking  of  cheaper 
cuts  of  meat,  the  first  few  minutes  should  be  at  strong  heat  to 
seal  the  surface  of  the  meat  and  to  retain  the  juices. 

Boiled  meat  (it  should  not  really  boil  but  barely  simmer  at 
about  180°  F.)  goes  further  if  prepared  with  a  generous  amount 
of  liquid,  and  the  addition  of  dumplings,  biscuits,  and  strips  of 
toast.  The  common  practice  of  adding  water  while  boiling  meat, 
for  the  reason  that  the  water  cooks  away,  indicates  bad  fuel  man- 
agement. 

Meat  cut  up  for  stewing  gives  a  richer  gravy  than  when  cooked 
in  one  piece.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  leave  one  solid  piece  of  meat  to 
slice  cold,  if  the  supply  is  sufficient  for  two  meals.  The  cold  meat 
should  be  left  in  the  stock  until  it  is  ready  to  serve,  so  as  to  retain 
the  moisture,  but  any  vegetables  that  are  in  the  stock  must  be 
removed,  or  the  flavor  will  be  too  strong. 

One  advantage  of  slowly  cooked  meat  dishes  is  that  prompt  serv- 
ice is  not  as  necessary  as  with  roasts,  steaks  and  so  forth.  Tender, 
red  meat  deteriorates  rapidly  if  allowed  to  stand  after  it  is  ready  to 
eat,  and  much  of  the  delicious  flavor  is  lost.  The  stew,  pot  roast, 
and  casserole  dishes  are  equally  good  whether  placed  on  the  table 
at  a  certain  moment  or  not.  In  fact,  they  can  be  kept  an  hour 
if  necessary  without  any  harm,  provided  they  are  kept  hot.  It  is 
a  great  convenience,  when  a  meal  is  delayed,  to  place  the  kettle  over 
hot  (but  not  boiling)  water,  without  having  the  meal  suffer. 

Meat  that  has  been  cured  in  brine  needs  longer  cooking  than 
fresh  meat ;  it  is  less  easily  digested,  as  the  action  of  the  salt  hardens 
the  tissues,  so  it  should  not  be  served  frequently,  and  never  served 
to  the  very  young  or  very  old.  For  variety,  cured  meats  may  be 
served  occasionally,  if  they  are  gently  and  thoroughly  cooked. 


3hiA>  maAk, 


Wilson  &  Co. 


luyuAi  cui/a/vo/ntee' 


47 


helpful 


■  The   'Wilson    Label    Protects    Your  Table 


BULLETINS    OF    THE    UNITED    STATES 
DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

AMERICAN  markets  furnish  a  great  variety  of  food  stuffs. 
New  fruits  and  vegetables  are  constantly  being  supplied 
through  the  help  of  the  Government.  It  is  worth  while 
to  try  out  foods  that  other  countries  have  found  valuable.  The 
Government  Bulletins  tell  how  to  select  and  use  untried  products, 
and  the  retailers  are  always  glad  to  show  a  new  article.  You  will 
also  find  that  the  Government  bulletins  issued  by  the  Department 
of  Agriculture  will  give  you  fuir  information  on  all  the  staple  goods 
you  use  in  your  homes  It  is  a  pity  that  these  bulletins,  which  cost 
so  little,  are  not  in  use  in  every  home.  They  treat  of  almost  every 
subject  pertaining  to  the  home  in  a  clear,  concise  manner.  These 
bulletins  contain  a  fund  of  practical  knowledge,  worked  out  by 
trained,  scientific  experts.  This  knowledge  is  presented  in  terms 
easily  understood. 

The  list  of  the  numerous  Government  publications,  together  with  their  price, 
can  be  secured  by  writing  to  the  Department  of  Agriculture  at  Washington. 
Many  of  these  bulletins  are  free;  for  others,  a  small  charge  is  made. 

We  are  indebted  to  the  Department  of  Agriculture  for  much  of  the  infor- 
mation contained  in  this  booklet. 

The  Department  of  Agriculture  has  published  a  great  number  of  bulletins, 
free  to  the  public  as  long  as  the  first  edition  lasts.  A  complete  list  will  be  sent 
to  anyone  who  writes  the  department  at  Washington.  Any  bulletin  not  procur- 
able through  free  distribution  may  be  obtained  at  a  cost  of  five  or  ten  cents  from 
the  Supt.  of  Documents,  Government  Printing  Office,  Washington,  D.  C. 

Following  is  a  partial  list  of  practical  pamphlets  for  the  house.  Numbers 
below  five  hundred  are  mostly  exhausted  in  the  free  list. 

Bread  and  Bread  Making  in  the  Home .No.  807 

249 
487 
128 
808 
824 
871 
142 
469 
375 
717 

85 
653 
121 

34 
526 

74 
468 
182 
535 
256 


Cereal  Breakfast  Foods 

Cheese  and  Its  Economical  Uses  in  Diet . 

Eggs  and  Their  Uses  as  Food 

How  to  Select  Foods :  Body  Needs 

How  to  Select  Foods :  Protein  Foods .... 

Fresh  Fruits  and  Vegetables 

Foods — Nutritive  Value  and  Cost 

Fats  and  Their  Economical  Use  in  Home 

Care  of  Food  in  the  Home 

Food  for  Young  Children 

Fish  as  Food 

Honey  and  Its  Uses  in  the  Home 

Beans,  Peas  and  Other  Legumes 

Meats :   Composition  and  Cooking 

Mutton  and  Its  Value  in  Diet 

Milk  as  Food 

Potatoes,  Sweet  Potatoes,  etc 

Poultry  as  Food 

Sugar  and  Its  Value  as  Food 

Preparation  of  Vegetables 


ZbjJb  maAk. 


[Wilson  &  Co. 


uotLTt  euLasui/r\£££.' 


48 


INDEX  TO  RECIPES 

Page 

Arkansas  Ham        42 

Bacon 43 

Baked  Ham  with  Apples  42 

Baked  Spareribs  with  Apples 41 

Beef  a  la  Mode 27 

Beef  Brisket       21 

Beef  Heart 31 

Beef  Heart  Meat  Loaf  . . . . 34 

Beef  Rolls        28 

Beefsteak  and  Kidney  Pudding 27 

Beefsteak  Pie 19 

Beef  Stew  with  Dumplings 24 

Beef  Sweetbreads 31 

Beef  Tongue  in  Casserole 31 

Boiled  Ham  with  Lima  Beans 42 

Braised  Beef 21 

Breaded  Pork  Chops 41 

Brisket  with  Onion  Sauce 21 

Broiling 26 

Browned  Breast  of  Mutton 38 

Cecils  with  Tomato  Sauce       .  . 34 

Chop  Suey 41 

Chuck  Steak  with  Onions 19 

Cold  Meats  Glazed      34 

Corned  Beef 22 

Corned  Beef  Hash 22 

Crown  of  Roast  Pork     41 

Dried  Beef.  . 30 

Dry  or  Summer  Sausage 34 

Escalloped  Corn  Beef .  22 

Ham  a  la  King 42 

Ham  en  Casserole     42 

Hot  Pot  of  Mutton  and  Barley 38 

Jellied  Soup . 20 

Lamb  By-Products 38 

Mutton  in  Casserole 38 

Mutton  Stew  with  Barley  38 

Planked  Sirloin  Steak        25 

Pork  Sausages 41 

Pot  Roast  with  Vegetables 19 

Potted  Hominy 30 

Quick  Meat  Loaf.  . 30 

Ribs  (how  to  roast) 23 

Roasting  (general  rules) 23 

Round  Steak,  browned 28 

Savory  Beef ; 22 

Short  Ribs  of  Beef.  . , ; 30 

Smothered  Beef      27 

Soup  Making     20 

Southern  Ham       . 42 

Southern  Pot  Roast 41 

Stuffed  Flank     24 

Stuffed  Ham  Roll 42 

Stuffed  Leg  of  Mutton 38 

Swiss  Steak 25 


0KU>  maAk.  llYllT^t'liPj*****'   uovJh  auAftomtee 


49 


MEMORANDUM 


OKJUb  maAk, 


Wilson  &  Co. 


▼~nr 


uorun*  Quo/vo/ntee' 


50 


The  Wilson  Label  Protects  Your  Table 


Y 


OU  have  profited  when  you  have  one  sure  indication 
of  the  purity,  quality  and  healthfulness  of  the  food 
products  you  buy  for  your  family. 

You  are  benefited  when  you  have  one  guide  to  the  selec- 
tion of  your  food  products — one  symbol  upon  which  you 
can  rest  your  judgment  in  confidence.  You  are  protected 
not  only  in  the  purchase  of  the  foods,  but  in  their  use. 

The  Wilson  label,  wherever  you  see  it,  identifies  a  food 
product  on  which  you  can  thoroughly  rely.  You  may  de- 
pend upon  the  cleanliness,  wholesomeness  and  excellence  of 
Wilson  products.  Their  appearance  alone  will  endorse  all 
we  say  of  them  and  all  that  the  Wilson  label  means. 

We  mean  that  the  phrase  "The  Wilson  Label  Protects 
Your  Table' '  shall  convince  you  of  its  truth.  The  only  way 
in  which  it  can  convince  you  satisfactorily  is  through  actual 
experience  in  using  Wilson  food  products  in  your  own  home. 

Everything  bearing  the  Wilson  label  has  been  selected, 
handled  and  prepared  with  respect.  By  this  respect  we  mean 
the  same  thoughtfulness  and  carefulness  with  which  your 
own  mother  would  prepare  the  favorite  dish  for  the  family. 

The  familiar  "W-shaped"  Wilson  label,  with  the  "big  red 
W"  trade  mark,  stands  for  our  good  faith  and  our  pledge  to 
you  that  Wilson  food  products  are  exactly  what  we  say 
they  are.  You  can  buy  them  with  the  fullest  confidence 
in  their  quality. 


m 


The    V/ilson    Label    Protects    Your    Table 


*3hJUb  moAk,  l>v"^l    ^^         ucvJv  ou/afta/niee 


51 


A  partial  list  of  Wilson  *s 

Certified  Brand  Products  sold 

under  our  "money-back" 

guarantee 


Sweet  Corn 
Green  Peas 
Tomatoes 
String  Beans 
Beets 

Pork  and  Beans 
Leaf  Spinach 
Asparagus  Tips 
California  Peaches 

Hawaiian 
Pineapple 


Cherries 

Blue  Berries 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

Catsup 

Chili  Sauce 

Jellies  Jams 

Preserves 

Peanut  Butter 

Mince  Meat 

Olives 

Sardines 

Salmon 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Ox  Tongue 

Veal  Loaf 

Vienna  Style 
Sausage 

Butterine 


Beans  that  are  Beans 

"PLUMP,  toothsome  beans 
**-  — cooked  just  right — with 
a  bit  of  juicy  pork  to  season 
them  and  rich  tomato  sauce 
to  add  zest  for  you. 

And  tomato  catsup  to  make 
them  even  better — Wilson's 
Certified  Catsup  —  made  of 
big,  ripe  tomatoes  and  pure, 
snappy    spices ! 

Two  of  our  famous  "money- 
back  guarantee"  Certified 
products. 

Every  Wilson  product  must 
be  selected  and  prepared  with 
respect,  just  as  your  own 
mother  might  prepare  it  for 
you. 


The    V/ilson    Label    Protects    Your    Table 


CJhxJb  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


ucrunv  auarva/nteje 


52 


Wilson's  Certified  Brand 
Canned  Peas 

The  best  you  ever  tasted 
— or  your  money   hack 

FLAVORY,  tender  green  peas — the  very 
finest  grown — picked  when  just  right  for 
the  table! 
You   will   say— "I   never  tasted   such   good 
peas" — when    you    try    Wilson's     Certified 
Brand. 

Only  peas  of  uniform  size — plump,  full-fla- 
vored and  fresh  from  the  vines  —  are  good 
enough  to  win  'Wilson's  Certified  Brand — the 
label  of  perfect  quality. 

All  the  fruits  and  vegetables  we  put  up  are 
prepared  with  unusual  care,  under  the  most 
sanitary  conditions. 

"Wilson  Certified  Brand  canned  foods  and 
table  specialties  possess  such  a  high  degree 
of  excellence  that  we  place  our  "money-back" 
guarantee  right  on  the  label. 

The  name  "Wilson  &  Co.  is  the  symbol  of 
superior  quality  in  these  products,  just  as  it 
stands  for  highest  excellence  in  all  other 
"Wilson  food  products. 

Our  "money-back"  guarantee  stands  along- 
side your  confidence  in  your  dealer.  Ask  him 
for  "Wilson's  Certified  food  products.  If  he 
cannot  supply  you  write  us  giving  his  name 
and  address  and  we  can  stock  him  very 
quickly. 


A  partial  list  of  Wilson's  Certified 

Brand  Products  sold  under  our 

"money-back"  guarantee 


Tomatoes 

String  Beans 

Beets 

Pork  and  Beans 

Pumpkin 

Leaf  Spinach 

Giant  Asparagus 

Asparagus  Tips 

California  Peaches 

Howaiian  Pineapple 

Cherries 

Blackberries 

Blueberries 


Strawberries 

Catsup 

Chili  Sauce 

Jellies  Jami 

Preserves 

Peanut  Butter 

Mince  Meat 

Olives 

Sardines  Salmoi 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Ox  Tongue 

Lunch  Tongue 

Veal  Loaf 


OUR  GUARANTEE 
IF  YOU  ARE  NOT  SATISFIED 
THAT  THE  CONTENTS  OF  THIS 
CAN  IS  OF  THE  HIGHEST  POSSIBLE 
QUALITY.  YOUR  DEALER  WILL 
REFUND  THE  PURCHASE  PRICE. 


~3\ub  mat* 


WILSON   &    CO 


The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your    Table 


Wilson  &  Co. 


WILSON'S 


A  partial  list  of  Wilson's  Certified 

Brand  Products  sold  under  our 

"money-back"  guarantee 


Sweet  Corn 

Green  Peas 

Tomatoes 

String  Beans 

Beets 

Pork  and  Beans 

Leaf  Spinach 

Asparagus  Tips 

California  Peaches 

Hawaiian  Pineapple 

Cherries 

Blue  Berries 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 


Catsup 

Chili  Sauce 

Jellies  Jams 

Preserves 

Peanut  Butter 

Mince  Meat 

Olives 

Sardines 

Salmon 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Ox  Tongue 

Veal  Loaf 

Vienna  Style  Sausage 

Butterine 


THE  development  of  the  Wilson  institution 
means  a  steady  betterment  not  only  of 
methods  of  production  but  in  the  quality 
of  the  products  wherever  possible. 

This  is  Wilson's  "Certified"  Ham  and  Bacon 
— the  successors  in  name  to  our  long-popular 
"Majestic"  brand. 

"Certified"  is  much  more  than  a  name.  It 
embodies  all  the  good  faith  and  sincerity  of 
our  organization,  as  symbolized  in  the  Wilson 
label  itself.  "Certified"  means  to  us — and 
we  want  it  to  mean  to  you — our  personal  re- 
sponsibility. "Certified"  on  ham  or  bacon 
means  that  that  product  is  as  good  as  it  can 
be  made. 

Rigidly  selected  from  plump,  young,  cornfed 
porkers  that  meet  our  precise  guaiifystandard, 
Certified  hams  and  bacon  are  given  our  pa- 
tient, old-fashioned  cure,  and  slow  smoking 
which  imparts  a  newer  and  more  delicious 
flavor  to  the  tender,  juicy  meat. 

Your  own  mother  could  not  be  more  careful 
or  more  thoughtful  than  we  are  in  the  selec- 
tion and  preparation  of  Wilson  products. 
Respect  governs  every  step — the  respect  that 
is  due  the  foods  which  are  to  reach  your  table. 

Wilson's  Certified  Ham  and  Bacon  are  now 
on  sale  all  over  the  country.  Ask  your  dealer 
for  them.  If  he  cannot  supply  you,  we  can 
stock  him  at  once,  as  our  distribution  is 
national. 


The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your    Table 


OftLto  maAk. 


%      A      Ml 


Wilson  &  Co. 


\y    \7 


aowi  cuLOftxi/rcbeje 


54 


* 


I  * 


Wilson's  Certified  Brand   Hawaiian  Pineapple 

A  delicious  treat  from  the  tropics 


TEMPTING  golden  slices  of  luscious 
Hawaiian  pineapple,  filled  with  and 
surrounded  by  its  own  rich  juice— a  treat 
from  the  tropics!  Nature  gives  to  Hawaiian 
pineapple  a  most  delicious  flavor.  We 
bring  to  you  this  tropic  dainty  in  all  its 
pure  excellence. 

We  gather  the  choicest  pineapples  grown 
on  the  island,  then  pack  them  in  the  most 
sanitary  and  scientific  manner,  to  give  you 
the  fruit  at  its  best. 

If  you  are  not  satisfied  that  Wilson's  Certi- 
fied Brand  Hawaiian  Pineapple  is  of  the 
highest  possible  quality,  just  ask  for  your 
money  back. 

We   give   this   unqualified   "money   back" 
Jhie-mnftk 


guarantee  on  all  Certified  Brand  fruits, 
vegetables  and  table  delicacies.  The  name 
Wilson  &  Co.  stands  for  the  highest  class 
in  these  products,  just  as  it  designates 
superior  quality  in  Majestic  Ham  and  Bacon 
and  all  other  Wilson  food  products. 

If  your  dealer  cannot  supply  you  with  Wilson's 
Certified  Brand  write  us  and  we  will  quickly  arrange 
for  him  to  be  stocked.     Our  distribution  is  national. 

A  partial  list  of  Wilson's    Certified   Brand 

Products  sold  under  our  "money 

back"  guarantee 

Sweet  Corn 
Green  Peas 
Tomatoes 
String  Beans 
Beets 

Pork  and  Beans 
Leaf  Spinach 
Asparagus  Tips 
California  Peaches* 


zz_ 


WILSON   &    CO 


Hawaiian 

Preserves 

Pineapple 

Peanut  Butter 

Cherries 

Mince  Meat 

Blue  Berries 

Olives 

Raspberries 

Sardines 

Strawberries 

Salmon 

Catsup 

Corned  Beef  Hash 

Chili  Sauce 

Ox  Tongue 

hes*     Jellies 

Veal  Loaf 

y0IW  fUMMtfta" 

Wilson  &  Co. 


USCIOUS. 


! 


A  partial  list  of  Wilson's  Certified 

Products  sold  under 

our  "money-back"  guarantee 


Sweet  Corn 

Green  Peas 

Tomatoes 

String  Beans 

Beets 

Pork  and  Beans 

Leaf  Spinach 

Asparagus  Tips 

California  Peaches 

Pineapple 

Cherries 

Blueberries 

Raspberries 

Strawberries 

Pumpkin 

Catsup 


Chili  Sauce 

Jellies 

Jams 

Preserves 

Peanut  Butter 

Mince  Meat 

Olives 

Sardines 

Salmon 

Ox  Tongue 

Veal  Loaf 

Ham 

Bacon 

Oleomargarine 

Coffee 


OED-RIPE  strawberries— preserved  by  a 
splendid  recipe— under  the  eyes  of  master 
chefs— in  model  kitchens— so  that  the  luscious- 
ness  of  the  plump,  ruddy  berry  is  enhanced 
and  kept  for  you— this  is  the  secret  of  our 
Certified  Strawberry  Preserves. 
Try  them— and  know  them.  Especially,  enjoy 
them  with  tea  biscuits  made  with  Wilson's 
Majestic  Lard  and  spread  with  Wilson's  Clear- 
brook  Butter. 

Our  Certified  Strawberry  Preserves  are  an  ex- 
ample of  what  the  Wilson  Certified  line  of  food 
products  means  for  the  home.     Fruits,  vege- 
tables, meats,  table  specialties— all  selected 
prepared  and  handled  with  the  respect  your 
own  mother  would  pay  anything  she  prepared 
for  you.   And  all  our  Certified  canned  and  pack- 
aged foods  bear  our  "money- back"  guaranty. 
Ask  your  dealer  for  "Wilson's  Certified"  goods. 
Should  he  not  supply  them,  please  write  us 
and  give  us  his  name.     We  can  quickly  stock 
him,  for  our  distribution  is  national. 


dhxJb  TrtaAk 


_*. 


WILSON   &    CO. 


"V     W 


uauA,  aua/va/nlee' 


56 


'^WM^^W^iMM^t^^^^^^^W^ 


if' 


Wh 


A  partial  list  of  Wilson's 
Certified  Brand  Products 

sold  under  our 
"money   back"   guarantee 


Wilson's  Certified  Brand 
Catsup   and  Chili   Sauce 

watched  from  tomato  seed  to  bottle 

WE  PLANNED  these  condi- 
ments for  you.  We  studied 
how  to  prepare  them  so  that 
they  would  enhance  the  goodness  of 
hot  and  cold  meats,  soups,  macaroni 
dishes,  gravies  and  the  other  foods 
with  which  you  use  them. 

To  have  that  perfect  quality  which 
earns  Wilson's  Certified  Brand  label 
they  are  made  of  big,  plump,  ruddy 
tomatoes  with  firm,  solid  meat — grown 
from  the  seed  of  our  own  selection — 
grown  in  those  sections  of  Indiana  famous 
for  superior  tomatoes.  You  taste  the  rich, 
ripe  tomato  flavor,  mingled  with  just  the 
right  amount  of  choice  spices. 

When  you  pour  "Wilson's  Certified  Brand 
Catsup  or  Chili  Sauce  onto  your  plate  you 
realize  that  at  last  the  skill  of  the  chef  has 
given  you  the  best  that  nature  can  offer. 

The  exacting  standards  of  excellence,  the 
scrupulous  care  and  cleanliness,  the  han- 
dling with  respect,  which  govern  the  pro- 
duction of  Majestic  Ham  and  Bacon,  of  our 
Certified  Brand  canned  fruits,  vegetables 
and  table  delicacies,  and  of  all  "Wilson  food 
products — these  show  their  value  to  you  in 
our  catsup  and  chili  sauce. 

Specify  "Wilson's  Certified  Brand  when  you 
buy  catsup  and  chili  sauce.  "We  promise 
you  a  richness,  a  flavor,  a  quality  you  have 
never  before  known. 


Sweet  Corn 

Raspberries 

Green  Peas 

Strawberries 

Tomatoes 

Catsup 

String  Beans 

Chili  Sauce 

Beets 

Jellies 

Pork  and  Beans 

Jams 

Pumpkin 

Preserves 

Leaf  Spinach 

Peanut  Butter 

Giant  Asparagus 

Mince  Meat 

Asparagus  Tips 

Olives 

California  Peaches 

Sardines                 . 

Hawaiian  Pineappl 

s  Salmon 

Cherries 

Corned  BeefHash 

Blackberries 

Ox  Tongue 

Blueberries 

Lunch  Tongue 

Loganberries 

Veal  Loaf 

The    Wilson    Label    Protects    Your    Table 


CJhU>  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


acrvJx,  euLOfca/ntee' 


57 


Wilson  s 

Certified  Brand  Coffee 

The  Perfect  Blend 

THE  coffee  experts  ofWilson  &  Co. 
have  brought  to  perfection  the  deli- 
cate art  of  blending  coffee.  The 
result  of  the  "Wilson  Blend"  is  a  much 
finer,  more  delectable  flavor  than  we 
have  ever  found  in  any  other  coffee. 

We  promise  you  a  new  delight  when 
you  taste  a  cup  of  Wilson's  Certified 
Brand  Coffee. 

Quality,  of  course,  begins  with  the 
coffee  bean.  But  the  quality  coffees  of 
various  regions  must  be  merged  into 
one  —  a  blending  of  the  best  in  each — 
before  they  yield  up  their  richest  treas- 
ures in  flavor  and  aroma. 

We  submit  the  achievement  of  our 
coffee  experts  to  the  judgment  of  all 
lovers  of  good  coffee. 

Blue  Can  Blend  is  our  highest  grade 
coffee.  We  back  our  belief  in  the  supe- 
rior quality  of  this  blend  of  coffee  with 
this  remarkable  guarantee: 

If  you  do  not  say  that  'Wilson's  Certi- 
fied Brand  Blue  Can  Blend  Coffee  is  the 
finest  coffee  you  ever  tasted,  your  dealer 
will  refund  the  purchase  price. 

Red  Can  Blend  is  our  popular-priced 
coffee.  If  you  are  not  satisfied  with  the 
value  of  this  blend  your  dealer  will  re- 
fund the  purchase  price.  Ask  your  dealer 
for  Wilson's  Certified  Brand  Coffee. 


*3KU>  maAk.  E 


*      A       # 


lutuA*  awJJ\&r&£jZ 


58 


C  II 


^"NUR  "money-back"  guarantee  is  on 
^^  every  Wilson's  Certified  label.  It 
distinguishes  our  Certified  fruits,  vegeta- 
bles and  table  specialties.  It  sets  them 
apart  from  ordinary  "canned  foods.''  It 
is  a  binding  pledge  that  the  quality  of  any 
of  our  Certified  products  must  satisfy 
your  own  individual  taste. 

We  could  not  make  such  a  guarantee  if 
we  did  not  first  make  sure  that  the  quality 
is  in  the  product.  We  prepare  these  foods 
for  your  table  with  the  respect  they  deserve. 


T  N  OUR  model  kitchens  we  are  as  care- 
*  ful  and  thoughtful  as  your  own  mother 
would  be.  Corn,  tomatoes,  peas,  beans 
and  other  vegetables,  as  well  as  the  fruits 
and  berries,  when  gathered  for  us  must 
be  of  the  finest  quality. 

Our  "money-back"  guarantee  stands 
alongside  your  confidence  in  your  dealer. 
Ask  him  for  Wilson's  Certified  food  pro- 
ducts. If  he  cannot  supply  you  write  us 
giving  his  name  and  address  and  we  can 
stock  him  very  quickly. 


The    VSilson    Label    Protects    Your   Table 


Ohib  moAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


aaruA  auA/tti/nt&e 


59 


You  Alone  Are  the  Judge 


The  guarantee  shown  below 
is  on  every  can  of  our  Cer- 
tified Brand  fruits,  vegeta- 
bles and  table  specialties.  It 
makes  you  the  sole  judge  of 
these  foods.  We  go  on  the 
principle  that  nothing  is  too 
good  for  our  patrons,  and  to 
justify  making  this  "money- 


back"  guarantee  we  have  to 
be  sure  that  the  foods  merit 
it.  This  guarantee  is  our 
pledge  to  you  personally 
that  everything  bearing  our 
Certified  Brand  label  is  pre- 
pared and  handled  with  the 
respect  due  that  which  is  to 
be  served  on  your  home  table. 


OUR  GUARANTEE 

IF  YOU  ARE  NOT  SATISFIED 
THAT  THE  CONTENTS  OF  THIS 
CAN  IS  OF  THE  HIGHEST  POSSIBLE 
QUALITY,  YOUR  DEALER  WILL 

REFUND  THE  PURCHASE  PRICE. 


A  partial  list 

of  Wilson 's 

certified  food  products 

Corn  Beef  Ha, 

Blueberries 

Lunch  Tonne 

Loganberries 

Veal  Loa/ 

Sweet  Corn 

JJJ  B**n" 

Chili  Sauce 

Pumpkin 

Jelllea 

jama 

AaparagusTtpa  Peanut  Butter 

Blackberries 

Sardinei 

Wilson  &  Co. 


C*^GO,,LU.,U.S> 


If  your  dealer  does  not  handle  our  Certified 
Products  write  us  and  we  will  see  that  you 
are  supplied.      Our  distribution  is  national. 


*&d  Stand 


£*TRa 


'4j? 


SHALUIEFU68 


^tESS  BEANS 


Ohib  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


▼""▼ 


ucWl  au/Vva/niee 


60 


■  II 


MEMORANDUM 


dhib  maAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


v^r 


ucrxxK  GMX3TiQsr&z£ 


61 


■  II 


MEMORANDUM 


OKiUb  moAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


^"^T" 


LUTuJu  aujitv&r&£je? 


62 


MEMORANDUM 


A     M 


OhJUb  moAk. 


Wilson  &  Co. 


^ — ^f 


r^^ToM/r^£, 


63 


Fill  out  these  coupons  with  names  of  your  friends 

Please  send  a  copy  of  your  book,  "WILSON'S  MEAT  COOKERY"  to 

Name  .: 

Street 

City State 

My  grocer  (or  butcher)  is 

Address 

Please  send  a  copy  of  your  book,  "WILSON'S  MEAT  COOKERY"  to 

Name 

Street 

City State 

My  grocer  (or  butcher)  is 

Address 

Please  send  a  copy  of  your  book  "WILSON'S  MEAT  COOKERY"  to 

Name 

Street 

City. State 

My  grocer  (or  butcher)  is 

Address 

Please  send  a  copy  of  your  book  "WILSON'S  MEAT  COOKERY''  to 

Name 

Street s „ 

City State „ 

My  grocer  (or  butcher)  is 

Address 

Please  send  a  copy  of  your  book  "WILSON'S  MEAT  COOKERY"  to 

Name 

Street  

City State 

My  grocer  (or  butcher)  is 

Address 


JKJJb  TnaAk.  m^'^M   oouA,  ouvonjo/nlee 


64 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


^B 


