diss—  Z  iA£l 


Copyright  N°_ 


f 


copYRicirr  nEPosrr. 


THE    WORCESTER    DOMESTIC 
SCIENCE    SCHOOL'S 

ONE  YEAR'S  COURSE 

Laboratory  Cook  Book 


Compiled  and  Copyrighted  1914. 

By 

FLORA    A.    WETHERED 


Published  by  the 

WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL 

156-158  Institute  Road 

Worcester,  Massachusetts,    U.  S.  A. 


1914 

HARRIGAN  PRESS,  Inc. 

Worcester,  Mass. 


.\AJ33 


To  My  Mother- 

Euty  f.  See 

this  book  is  affectionately  dedicated,  through 
whose  devotion  to  home  life  and  inspiring 
influence  1  was  led  to  study  Domestic  Science 


SEP  30 1914 


CI.A379768 
■k-o  / 


THE    WORCESTER    DOMESTIC    SCIENCE    SCHOOL 


INDEX 

The  Worcester  Domestic  Science  School   Frontispiece 

One  of  the   Dormitories 

Introduction     3 

Lecture  1 4 

Fundamental  Cookery  Principles   8 

Steps  in  Marketing 9 

Preservation  of  Food  Experiments  9 

I <esson  IT. — Preservation  of  Foods,  etc 11 

Canning     13 

Sterilization     14 

Preserving 18 

Relishes     24 

Foods     28 

Experiments  with   Starch    31 

Cereals     33 

Bread — Experiments    in    Fermentation     38 

Gems    43 

Methods  of  Cooking — Deep  Fat  Frying   46 

Poultry     48 

Fish      54 

The    Lobster    61 

Lesson  on  Olive  Oil  66 

Vegetables    68 

Soups    80 

Garnishes  for  Soups   87 

Sandwiches    89 

Pastry — with   Illustrations    92 

Meats — with  Illustrations    99 

Meat,  Fish  and  Other  Sauces  120 

Salads    126 

Eggs     134 

Cheese  Dishes   140 

Croquettes     141 

Timbales     144 

Plain  Cookery — Leftovers    147 

Chafing  Dish  Cookery    150 

Invalid  Cookery    154 

Puddings 159 

Desserts 170 

Sweet    Jellies    184 

Bavarian    Creams    186 


Frozen  Desserts    18S 

Sugar    Cookery — Confections    197 

Cake    203 

Fancy   Cakes — Illustrated    207 

Cakes  and  Other  Pastry 213 

Cookery   Phrases c 218 

Demonstration  of  the  Fireless  Cooker    . . . 219 

Formal    Meals     222 

Menus    240 

Household   Hints 215 


The  purpose  of  this  little  volume  is  to  supply 
a  laboratory  cook  book  suitable  for  a  one  year 
course  in  cookery  for  those  preparing  to  teach 
the  subject.  Much  help  will  be  derived  from 
studying  the  notes  preceding  each  subject. 
All  foods  and  utensils  should  be  in  place  be- 
fore beginning  the  lesson 


LECTURE  I. 

Def. — COOKERY  is  the  art  of  preparing  food  for  nourishing  the 
human  body  by  preserving  nutritive  constituents  and  flavors  and 
rendering  it  soluble. 

Food  is  cooked  to  develop  new  flavors  and  soften  fibres;  to  make 
more  palatable  and  to  render  it  more  digestible. 

The  three  essentials  are: — (1)  Heat,  (2)  Air,  (3)  Moisture. 

Def. —  (1)  Heat  is  increased  molecular  motion  produced  by  combus- 
tion. Combustion  cannot  take  place  without  air.  Oxy- 
gen is  the  only  supporter  of  combustion. 

(2)  Air  is  composed  of  oxygen,  nitrogen,  argon,  various  other 

gases,  and  some  impurities. 

(3)  Moisture,  in  form  of  water,  is  either  found  in  food,  or 

added  to  it  extensively. 

The  combined  effect  of  heat  and  moisture  hardens  albumen  in  eggs, 
fish  and  meat;  and  softens  fibrous  portions  of  meat  and  the  cellulose 
of  vegetables. 

The  burning  of  fuels  depends  upon  the  rapidity  of  combustion. 

Def. — A  fuel  is  a  substance  that  can  be  employed  usefully  in  com- 
bination with  atmospheric  air  or  oxygen  to  the  production  of  heat. 


OUTLINE  OF  FUELS 
2.  'Coal. 


A. 

Solids. 

1 

.     Wood. 

(a)   Soft 

(b)   Hard 

(c)   Charcoal 

(d)   Peat 

B. 

Fluids. 

1.     City  Gas 

2.     Natural  Gas 

3.     Kerosene 

4.     Alcohol 

(a)  Soft 

(b)  Hard 

(c)  Chestnut 

(d)  Pea 

(e)  Coke 


(  a  )   Pure,  75c  quart. 
(b)   Wood,  25c  quart. 
.    (c)   Denatured,  30c  a  quart. 

C.     Electricity. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  r> 

VARIOUS  KINDS  OF  FUEL. 

Hard  WoodSj  as  hickory,  oak,  ash,  etc.,  produce  more  heal  and 
burn  more  slowly  than  soft  woods. 

Soft  Woods,  as  pine,  cedar,  birch,  etc.,  are  commonly  used  as 
kindling.     Resinous  pine  wood  gives  too  hot  a  temperature, — gives  an 

extreme  heat. 

It  is  not  an  economical  wood  to  burn  for  a  (ire;  it  is  also  likely  to 
warp  a  stove. 

Wood  absorbs  iMr,  moisture,  and  takes  a  great  amount  of  heat 
to  dry.  It  is  organic  in  nature  and  is  made  up  of  a  number  of  small 
elements, — carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen  making  up  the  greater  part. 
It  has  a  small  amount  of  mineral  matter  which  is  found  in  the  form  of 
lime,  potash,  soda  and  silica. 

The  framework  of  wood  is  cellnlose,  which  is  carbohydrate. 

Wood  stores  up  moisture  without  having  the  appearance  of  it. 
As  soon  as  the  wood  begins  to  char,  the  moisture  comes  out  of  it. 

Soft  Woods,  as  pine,  kindle  more  easily,  produce  intense  heat,  and 
are  best  for  a  quick-blazing  fire. 

Hard  ^Yoods,  as  oak,  ash  and  hickory,  burn  more  slowly  but  pro- 
duce harder  coals  which  retain  the  heat  longer. 

Many  kinds  of  wood,  especially  ash,  contain  much  alkali. 

Charcoal  is  made  from  wood  in  underground  kilns,  having  small 
openings  at  the  top  as  smoke  outlets.  The  wood  becomes  carbonized 
and  gives  off  intense  heat.  As  a  fuel  this  makes  a  good  brisk,  but  not 
a  lasting  fire. 

Peat  is  of  plant  origin.  Ages  ago  the  trees  fell,  glaciers  and  rocks, 
and  lastly,  the  water  came,  thus  crushing  all  plant  life.  By  the  pres- 
sure of  the  earth  and  water,  and  the  exclusion  of  air,  the  plants  became 
mineralized.    The  substance  thus  formed  is  called  peat. 

It  is  always  found  in  boggy  places.  As  a  fuel,  its  qualities  are 
much  the  same  as  those  of  charcoal. 

Coal  is  a  mineral  substance  originally  of  vegetable  origin.  It  com- 
mences with  plant  life  just  the  same  as  peat  does;  but  the  coal  re- 
mained in  the  earth  a  longer  time.    Peat  is  coal  in  process  of  formation. 

Sulphur  and  Tar  are  the  most  common  impurities  found  in  coal. 
Soft  coal  contains  the  most  tar;  this  passes  off  in  smoke  as  do  all  im- 
purities. There  are  two  different  kinds  of  coal;  anthracite,  or  hard 
coal ;  and  bituminous,  or  soft  coal. 

Hard  Coal,  or  anthracite,  contains  (M)  to  95%  carbon.  It  is  a  kind 
of  mineral-charcoal  derived  from  ancient  vegetation  buried  in  the  earth 
and  so  thoroughly  pressed  that  nothing  is  left  but  pine,  carbon,  sul- 


G  THE   WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE   SCHOOL. 

phur,  and  an  incombustible  ash.     It  kindles  slowly,  yields  an  intense 
heat,  and  burns  a  long  time  without  replenishing. 

Soft  Coal,  or  bituminous  coal,  contains  from  70  to  90%  carbon. 
It  is  not  so  compact  as  the  anthracite,  and  therefore  has  to  be  replen- 
ished oftener.  It  is  not  very  much  used,  and  costs  from  $4.00  to  $4.50 
a  ton. 

Egg  and  Stove  Coal  are  mostly  used  for  heating  in  furnaces. 
Nut  or  Chestnut  Coal  is  Bright  and  Shiny,  and  is  mostly  used  for 
cookery. 

Pea  Coal  is  also  used  for  cookery.  It  is  cut  in  very  small  pieces 
and  is  good  for  "bedding  fires." 

Coke  is  simply  coal  with  the  gas  removed.  It  gives  an  intense  heat, 
is  liable  to  warp  the  stove,  and  burns  out  very  quickly.  It  is  not  a  very 
good  fuel. 

The  average  prices  of  the  various  kinds  of  coal  are: — 

(1)  Egg  Coal,    |8.00   a  ton. 

(2)  Chestnut   Coal,    8.00   a  ton 

(3)  Pea  Coal, 6.50  a  ton. 

(4)  Coke, 5.00  a  ton. 

Buy  coal  in  the  summer  time  if  possible,  for  it  is  much  cheaper  then. 


FLUID  FUELS. 


City  Gas  for  illuminating  purposes  is  made  from  soft  coal  heated 
in  clay  retorts;  the  sulphur  and  carbon  dioxides  are  removed  by  quick- 
lime. 

Heating  or  Fuel  Gas  is  made  from  hard  coal  heated  red  hot  in 
air-tight  retorts;  the  carbon  dioxide  and  hydrogen  resulting  are  both 
poisons  having  no  odor;  so  that  acetylene  (C2  H4)  or  naphtha  is  usu- 
ally added  to  discover  leakage.  Acetylene  also  makes  the  flame  brighter. 
The  yell o ic  flame  means  that  the  gas  has  great  lighting  properties, 
while  the  blue  flame  indicates  great  heating  properties. 

Natural  Gas  is  often  used  as  a  fuel,  but  is  full  of  impurities  and  is 
rather  smoky. 

Kerosene  is  a  mineral  oil  obtained  from  coal  itself  or  from  direct 
borings  in  the  earth.  It  contains  many  impurities,  the  greatest  of 
which  is  sulphur.  Kerosene  comes  from  petroleum  and  when  it  is 
refined  paraffine  and  vaseline  are  procured  from  it ;  the  resulting  gases 
are  gasoline  and  naphtha.  Kerosene  oil  is  the  cheapest  household  fuel, 
and  when  of  good  quality  it  is  perfectly  safe  to  use  if  the  burners  of 
the  stove  are  intended  for  it.  It  should  never  be  used  to  kindle  a  coal  or 
wood  fire,  because,  when  heated,  it  gives  off  a  vapor,  which  is  likely  to 
explode,  if  it  comes  in  contact  with  fire. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  7 

The  purest  Alcohol  is  obtained  from  grains.     It  gives  an  intense 
heat,  bat  is  seldom  used  on  account  of  the  expense — 75  cents  a  quart. 


STOVES. 

Points  to  be  considered  in  buying  a 

range: 

Kinds  of  Stoves, 

1.     Wood 

2.     Coal 

3.     Gas 

4.     Electric 

5.     Alcohol 

6.     Blue-flame  oil  stove 

Coal  Stoves                                         Gas 

Stoves 

1.     Size                                                  1. 

Durability 

2.     Drafts                                             2. 

Quality  of  castings 

3.     Shaking  of  grate                          3. 

Form  of  burner 

4.     Material                                          4. 

Economy  of  fuels 

5.     Cleaning                                         5. 

Economy  of  time  and 

A  good  stove  costs  from  $50  to  $60. 

labor 


COAL  STOVES 

Plainness  is  a  great  asset  in  stoves;  the  fewer  scroll  trimmings, 
etc.,  there  are  to  be  kept  clean  and  polished,  the  better  for  the  house- 
wife. She  will  have  more  time  for  other  things ;  besides  saving  herself 
an  output  of  much  labor.  The  modern  "Mission"  stoves  are  much  to 
be  favored  for  their  simplicity  as  regards  trimmings.  They  are  also 
very  good  to  look  at.    Steel  is  the  best  material  for  stoves. 

The  fire-box  should  be  medium-sized  for  too  deep  a  one  burns  too 
much  coal,  and  too  shallow  a  one  does  not  give  enough  heat.  The  lower 
openings  are  drafts ;  the  upper  one  over  the  fire-box  is  a  check.  Notice 
the  contrivance  for  removing  and  cleaning  the  ash-pan ;  also  notice  the 
dumping  of  the  grate. 

Small  pipe  flues  give  the  best  results.  The  heat  can  be  regulated 
in  many  coal  stoves  by  opening  the  lids  over  the  oven  one-quarter  or 
one-third;  or  by  opening  the  chimney  dampers.  Thorough  investiga- 
tion of  the  different  qualities  of  stoves  before  purchasing  is  recom- 
mended. 


Fundamental  Cookery  Principles 

1.  Preparation  and  consideration  of  kind  of  fire  and  oven  required. 

Clean  hands  and  finger  nails;  hair  covered. 

2.  Selection  of  food. 

3.  Proper  care. 

4.  No  soaking  of  vegetables,  except  cabbage,  turnips,  onions,  brus- 

sels  sprouts. 

5.  Wiping  meats  and  fish  with  damp  cloth — keep  cool  and  covered. 

6.  Searing  at  temp,  of  300°  F.  or  brisk  boiling  15  minutes  to  seal 

pores. 

7.  Gentle  heating  for  soft-cooked  albumen  and  all  other  proteid  foods. 

8.  Never  boil  milk. 

9.  Have  fat  smoking  white  heat  for  deep  fat  living.     Temp.  350  to 

400°  F. 

10.  Only  melt  butter  and  sugar,  except  when  roux  or  caramel  is  de- 

sired. 

11.  Have  H20  just  at  boiling  point  for  tea,  coffee  and  drinks. 

12.  In  white  sauce  blend  butter  and  flour,  add  hot  milk  slowly,  cook- 

ing paste  briskly  meanwhile. 

13.  Chop  fat  into  flour  in  pastry-making  with  two  knives. 

11.  Have  all  pastry  mixtures  as  cool  as  possible  and  handle  as  little 
as  possible. 

15.  Keep  all  fats  closely  covered  and  cold. 

16.  Keep  all  leavening  powders  and  spices  covered  closely. 

17.  Cover  all  cold  foods  whenever  possible. 

18.  Never  cover  foods  when  they  are  warm. 

19.  Never  put  hot  food  into  refrigerator. 

20.  Cork  olive  oil  tightly  and  never  allow  it  to  congeal. 

21.  In  beating  or  stirring  foods  try  to  incorporate  fresh   air.     Air 

kitchen  frequently. 

22.  Keep  all  cut  fruits,  fruit  juices  and  vinegar  tightly  covered. 

23.  Never  put  onions,  cabbage  or  its  allies,  or  fish  into  refrigerator 

with  other  foods.     They  will  readily  flavor  other  foods. 
21.     Never  put  waste   and  trimmings  from   vegetables   or   cheese  in 
with  perfect  part. 

25.  Cook   vegetables    as   quickly   as   possible — especially,  those    with 

color. 

26.  Serve  hot  foods  hot,  and  cold  foods  cold. 

27.  Leave  flour,  meal,  graham,  etc.,  uncovered,  or  in  paper  bags. 

28.  Do  not  slop  and  drizzle  liquids.     If  spilled,  wipe  up  in  lukewarm 

naphtha  soap  solution. 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  9 

29.     Never  cut  vegetables,  or  pu1  lisli  on  moulding  board;  have  board 

special. 
."»(».     Never  use  wooden  spoon  in  mixtures  containing  onion  flavor. 
Have  special  dish  for  cooking  onions. 

31.  Never  leave  metal  spoons  in  liquids. 

32.  Do  not  burn  paper  or  garbage  on  the  coal  fire. 


1.  Never  hull  strawberries   or  pluck  grapes,   raisins,   cherries,   etc., 

from  stems  before  washing. 

2.  Plunge  oysters,  figs,  etc.,  that  are  eaten  raw — first  into  hot  H20 

ami  then  cool  and  dry  them  before  eating. 

3.  Wash  all  fruit  without  soaking. 

4.  Never  nse  metallic  spoon  in  any  acid  fruit  or  vegetable.     Use 

wooden  one. 

5.  Wash  boards  or  chopping  bowl  at  once  in  cold  H20  after  using 

onion  or  cabbage  in  them.    Dry  in  sunlight. 

6.  Wood  absorbs  and  retains  flavors.    Never  put  wet  boards  or  trays 

near  the  fire  to  dry. 

7.  Do  not  allow  teakettles  or  double  boilers  to  become  dry.     If  dry 

and  hot,  let  cool  before  adding  cold  H20. 

8.  Have  special  receptacle  for  matches  and  keep  in  cool,  dry  place; 

as  tin  can. 

9.  Never  throw  burnt  matches  into  waste  basket.     Have  metal  re- 

ceptacle for  them,  throw  into  stove  or  sink. 
10.     Screen   all  windows  and  doors,   protect  food  from   the  common 
house  fly,  which  is  known  to  be  a  carrier  of  disease. 
Eeacl  Dr.  Gordon  K.  Dickinson's  book  on  the  House-fly. 


STEPS  IN  MARKETING 

1.  Hand  picked. 

2.  Graded. 

3.  Wrapped  in  tissue  paper. 

4.  Packed  in  layers. 

5.  Faced — rounded  up  with  choicest. 

G.  New  York  considered  best  market  in  East. 


PRESERVATION  OF  FOOD  EXPERIMENTS 

Materials  for  each  person. 

1.  Fresh  fruit. 

2.  Salt,  sngar,  cinnamon,  alcohol,  vinegar. 

3.  Five  small  saucers  or  cover  glasses. 

4.  Five  1-ounce  wide-mouthed  bottles. 

5.  Four  corks  to  fit  bottles. 


10  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

6.     Cotton,  sealing-wax,  labels. 

Label  all  exp.  with  number,  name,  and  date. 

Experiment  I. 

Eaw  fruit  on  cover  glass:  (1)  place  in  a  slow  oven;  (2)  place  in 
refrigerator;  (3)  expose  to  ordinary  temperature. 

Experiment  II. 

Eaw  fruit :  cover  thickly  with  salt ;  expose  at  ordinary  temperature 

Experiment  III. 

Eaw  fruit:  cover  thickly  with  sugar;  expose  at  ordinary  temper- 
ature. 

Experiment  IV. 

Eaw  fruit:  cover  thickly  with  ground  spice;  expose  at  ordinary 
temperature. 

Experiment  V. 

Eaw  fruit:  sliced,  placed  in  bottle,  corked  and  sealed. 

Experiment  VI. 

Eaw  fruit:  cover  with  alcohol  before  corking. 

Experiment  VII. 

Eaw  fruit :  cover  with  clear  vinegar  before  corking. 

Experiment  VIII. 

Sterilize  bottle  and  cork.     Cook  the  fruit  without  sugar.  Fill  the 
bottle  with  hot  fruit  to  overflowing,  cork  and  seal. 


LESSON   II. 

1.     PKESEKVATION  OF  FOODS. 

1.  Object: — Destruction  or  arrest  of  germ  growth. 

2.  Means  : — 

a.  Heat. 

I).  Expulsion  of  air. 

c.  Expulsion  of  moisture. 

d.  Freezing. 

e.  Use  of  antiseptics  or  preservatives. 

3.  Processes  : — 

a.  Natural  Drying. 

(1)  Meats. 

(2)  Vegetables. 

(3)  Fruits. 

For  example: — 
(1 )     Grapes  j 

|2)      Figs        l  Dried  in  Sun. 
!  3 1     Dates     j 

b.  Artificial  Means. 

(1)  Other  Fruits  dried  artificially. 

(2)  Fish  dried  in  salt  as  an  antiseptic. 

(3)  Curing  or  smoking. 

(4)  Moisture. 

(a)  Brine. 

(b)  Vinegar  spiced. 

(c)  Plain  vinegar. 

(5)  Cold  storage  or  freezing. 

(6)  Heat, 

i  a  |     Canning  fruits — sugar  as  the  antiseptic. 
(  7 »      Sealing  and  combining  with  salt. 

(8)  Excess  of  sugar: — For  example:  jam. 

(9)  Fruits  preserved  raw  by  surrounding     with     cold 

water,  excluding  Air. 

(10)  Heat  alone  without  liquid  or  sterilizing — used  for 
small  juicy  fruits. 

(11)  Use  of  alcohol  for  exhibit  purposes. 


THREE  METHODS  OF  STERILIZATION. 

1.  Wash  bottles  and  Bake  in  oven  for  20  minutes. 

2.  Wash  bottles  or  jars  and  Boil  15  minutes. 


12  TEE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

3.     Wash  and  place  in  Cold  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point. 

Note — In  the  last  two  methods,  place  the  jars,  with  their  covers 
off,  Upside  Down  in  the  water  on  a  trivet.  The  rubber  rings  should  be 
placed  in  a  separate  dish  containing  very  warm  water,  but  not  Boil 7 // g 
water,  as  that  will  melt  the  rubber  to  a  gum. 

The  jars  must  be  air-tight  when  filled  (this  accounts  for  their  be- 
ing filled  to  overflowing  before  sealing)  :  fermentation  is  caused  by  the 
growth  of  bacteria. 


KIND  OF  JARS. 


If  Mason  Jars  are  used,  invert  them  after  filling  and  screwing  on 
covers,  and  allow  them  to  stand  thus  for  20  or  30  minutes.  If  they 
leak,  even  the  slightest  bit,  dip  them  in  paraffine  at  once;  for  the  jars 
must  be  absolutely  air-tight. 

The  Lightning  and  the  Atlas  jars  are,  by  far,  the  best  kinds  to  use; 
the  latter  closely  resembles  the  former,  excepting  that  it  has  a  larger 
mouth. 

Never  use  a  jar  with  a  metal  top  as  corrosion  is  sure  to  set  in 
sooner  or  later  and  cause  fermentation. 


CANNING  AND  PKESEKVING. 

IJtexsils  Needed. 

Fruit  acids  attack  iron  or  tin  utensils,  giving  a  bad  odor  and  taste 
to  the  fruit;  utensils  should  be  porcelain  lined  or  enameled. 

Preserving  kettles,  colander,  fine  strainers,  a  skimmer,  a  ladle,  a 
large  mouthed  funnel,  1  wire  frying  basket,  bowls;  silverplated,  agate 
or  wooden  spoons,  silver  plated  fruit  knives,  jars  with  new  rubbers  and 
perfect  covers,  squares  of  cheese-clotli,  scales,  and  a  wooden  vegetable 
masher. 


SELECTION  AND  PREPARATION. 

Fruit  is  at  its  best  for  canning,  jelly-making,  etc.,  just  before  it 
is  fully  ripe.    Use  no  imperfect  fruit. 

Fruit  should  if  possible  be  freshly  picked. 

All  large,  hard  fruits  should  be  washed  before  paring. 

Rub  quinces  with  a  coarse  towel  before  washing. 

Wash  berries  before  stemming  or  hulling,  placing  a  few  at  a  time 
in  a  large  colander  or  sieve,  allowing  water  to  flow  over  them  quickly 
and  placing  them  in  a  sieve  to  dry.  Use  a  strawberry  huller  for  straw- 
berries. 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  13 

CANNING 
Three  Methods. 

2.    Cooking  the  fruit  in  the  jars  in  an  oven. 

2.     Cooking  the  fruit  in  the  jars  in  boiling  water. 

:\.     Stewing  the  fruit  before  placing  in  jars. 

The  principle  of  canning  is  sterilization  of  food  and  utensils.  The 
success  of  canning  depends  upon  proper  sterilization.  To  sterilize 
means  to  tree  from  all  germ  life. 

Proper  care  means  no  failures  unless  a  spore  has  developed  in 
the  can. 

There  are  several  methods  of  canning;  but,  while  the  principle  is 
the  same  the  conditions  under  which  the  housekeeper  must  do  her  work 
may  make  one  method  more  convenient  than  others. 

To  exclude  the  air  is  the  principle  of  all  canning. 

Method  I. 

Fruit  cooked  before  it  is  put  into  the  jars;  the  aim  is  to  keep  the 
fruit  in  shape  by  gentle  cooking,  and  the  avoidance  of  overcooking. 

Filling: — Jars,  covers  washed  and  sterilized;  rubbers  dipped  in 
boiling  waver;  the  fruit  poured  in  boiling  hot.  Avoid  air-bubbles  by 
inserting  silver  knife  or  spoon  handle  and  slipping  it  around  the  sides 
of  jar.    Fill  can  to  overflowing  and  fasten  cover  on  tightly. 

Method  II.     (Fruit  cooked  m  the  jar.) 
Filling: — Jars,  rubbers,  and  covers  cleansed;  fruit  placed  in  cans 
as  compactly  as  possible  without  destroying  shape ;  hot  water  or  syrup 
poured  in  to  overflowing.     Cover  laid  on,  but  not  screwed  until  cook- 
ing is  accomplished. 

Cooking: — Jars  surrounded  by  hot  water  or  steam. 

Method  III. 
Fruit  cooked  in  jar  without  sugar  or  water. 
Filling: — Pack  dry  jars  full  of  fruit;  fasten  down  the  tops  at 
once;  place  them  in  a  boiler  of  cold  water  nearly  covering  them;  raise 
to  the  boiling  point.  Cook  one  hour,  and  leave  them  in  the  water  until 
cold  again.  In  this  way  they  are  cooked  in  their  own  juice,  and  are 
said  to  retain  their  flavor  better  than  where  water  is  used.  (This 
method  is  not  often  used  because  in  this  way  the  fruit  is  not  sweet 
ened.) 

Method  IV. 
Fruit  and   regetables   canned   without   cooking. 
Fruits    used    are   blueberries,    crab    apples,    cranberries,    rhubarb 
(cut  up),   and   lemons;   vegetables   used   are   asparagus,   corn,   string 


14  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

beans,  peas,  and  shell  beans.    Any  firm,  fresh,  ripe  vegetable  may  be 
done  in  this  way. 

Filling: — Jars  thoroughly  cleansed;  fruit  carefully  selected  and 
picked  over;  washed  and  packed  into  jars.  Cold  water  allowed  to  run 
over  them  5  minutes  or  more,  then  sealed  in  usual  manner.  When 
ready  to  use,  cook  in  water  in  which  they  were  sealed ;  this  is  to  retain 
flavor. 

Method  V. 
Old  fashioned  method  for  strawberries  and  raspberries,  the  former 

particularly. 

Select  firm,  fresh  fruit ;  wash  and  dry  thoroughly  ( drain  on  cheese- 
cloth until  dry.)  Hull  berries;  weigh  fruit  out.  Use  l1/-?  times  as 
much  sugar  as  fruit.  Place  berries  in  an  earthern  dish  and  mash  with 
a  silver  fork.  Add  sugar  gradually,  beating  all  the  time  until  all  has 
been  added.  Then  beat  20  minutes,  still  with  silver  fork.  Pour  into 
sterilized  glass  jars  and  seal.  This  is  the  only  method  to  retain  the  nat- 
ural color  of  the  strawberries;  and  the  preserve  will  keep  beautifully. 
It  is  splendid  for  strawberry  shortcake  in  mid- winter;  it  looks  like 
fresh  fruit  and  tastes  delicious. 

It  is  most  important  that  the  jars,  rubber  rings,  and  covers  be  in 
perfect  condition.  Examine  each  jar  and  cover  to  see  if  there  are  any 
defects.  Use  only  fresh  rubber  rings ;  for  if  the  rubber  is  not  soft  and 
elastic,  the  sealing  will  not  be  perfect.  Each  year  numbers  of  jars  are 
lost  because  of  the  false  economy  of  using  rubbers  that  have  lost  their 
softness  and  pliability.  Having  jars,  rubbers,  and  rings  in  perfect 
condition,  the  next  thing  to  do  is  to  sterilize. 


STERILIZATION 

Method  I. 
Wash  jars  thoroughly;  place  on  a  trivet  in  a  tin  pan  in  the  oven, 
and  allow  to  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 

Method  II. 
Wash  jars  thoroughly  and  place  upside  down  on  a  trivet  in  a 
kettle.  Surround  with  cold  water  nearly  covering  them;  then  cover 
the  kettle,  so  as  to  subject  them  to  steam.  Let  the  water  come  to  the 
boiling  point.  The  covers  can  be  placed  in  the  same  kettle,  but  not 
under  the  jars. 


FILLING  OF  JAES. 

While  filling,  stand  jars  on  a  towel  in  a  pan  of  hot  water;  or  place 
the  towel  in  the  pan  and  then  pour  boiling  water  over  it.  Put  fruit 
in  scalding  hot,  and  fill  to  overflowing.     Eun  silver  knife  or  spoon- 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  L5 

handle  down  sides  to  liberate  the  air  there,  which  causes  little  '"air- 
bubbles.''  Refill  and  screw  on  cover.  When  fruit  is  thoroughly  cold, 
re-screw  cover  so  it  will  be  perfectly  tight. 

The  work  of  filling  and  sealing  jars  must  be  done  rapidly  and  the 
fruit  must  be  boiling  hot  when  put  into  jars.  If  screw-covers  are  used, 
it  will  be  found  necessary  to  tighten  them  after  the  glass  has  cooled  and 
contracted. 

When  the  fruit  is  cold,  wipe  jars  with  a  wet  cloth ;  paste  on  labels, 
and  put  the  jars  on  shelves  in  a  cool  dark  closet. 

After  jellies  are  firm  and  perfectly  solid,  pour  melted  paraffin e 
over  them,  and  seal  with  tin  covers  or  pieces  of  paper  dipped  in  pure 
grain  alcohol. 


SYRUP  MAKING. 

In  canning,  any  proportion  of  sugar  and  water  may  be  used  or 
fruit  may  be  canned  without  the  addition  of  sugar.  That  which  is 
designed  to  serve  as  sauce  should  have  sugar  cooked  with  it.  Fruit  in- 
tended for  cooking  purposes  need  not  have  any  sugar  added  to  it. 

It  has  been  found  possible  to  measure  the  water  and  the  sugar,  so 
that  the  percentage  of  sugar  in  a  syrup  can  be  found  when  the  syrup 
begins  to  boil. 

This  can  be  found  by  the  aid  of  a  sugar-gauge;  but  the  following 
table  will  be  found  all  that  is  necessary  for  ordinary  cooking. 


SUGAR  TABLE. 

I.  1  pint  sugar  plus  one-half  cup  water  equals  a  syrup  of  40°  density 

(i.  e.  heaviness,  or  richness.)     Use  for  preserved  strawberries  and 
cherries. 

II.  1  pint  sugar  plus  1  cup  water  equals  32°  density.     (See  note  un- 
der III.) 

III.  1  pint  sugar  plus  1%  cups  water  equals  28°  density. 

Note:  Use  either  II.  or  III.  for  preserved  peaches,  plums,  quinces 
currants,  etc. 

IV.  1  pint  sugar  plus  1  pint  water  equals  24°  density. 

Xote:  Use  IV.  for  canned  acid  fruits  as  pineapples,  sour  apples, 
crab  apples,  plums,  etc.  This  is  a  good  syrup  for  preserving 
the  color. 

V.  1  pint  sugar  plus  1%  pints  hot  water  equals  17°  density. 
(See  note  under  VII.) 

VI.  1  pint  sugar  plus  2  pints  wrater  equals  14°  density. 
(See  note  under  VII.) 

VII.  One-half  cup  sugar  plus  1  pint  water  equals  10°  density. 
Kote:     Use  any  one  of  V,  VI  and  VII  for  canned  pears,  peaches, 


16  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIEXCE  SCHOOL. 

sweet  plums,  and  cherries,  raspberries,  blueberries  and  black- 
berries. 

The  lightest  syrups  may  be  used  for  filling  up  the  jars  after  taking 
from  the  boiler.  The  processes  of  syrup-making  are  simple,  but  a  few 
points  must  be  observed.  Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  saucepan,  and 
stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
boil  gently  without  stirring. 

The  length  of  time  to  boil  depends  upon  the  richness  desired.  All 
syrups  should  boil  10  minutes;  boil  longer  if  desired  rich.  If  rich 
syrups  (i.  e.  those  containing  much  sugar)  are  boiled  hard  or  jarred 
or  stirred,  they  are  liable  to  crystallize. 

The  syrup  may  be  made  a  day  or  tAvo  in  advance  of  canning  time. 
Light  syrups  will  not  keep  long  unless  sealed,  but  heavy  syrups  keep 
well  if  covered  carefully. 

The  amount  of  sugar  in  each  quart  of  syrup  should  be  regulated 
to  suit  the  fruit  with  which  it  is  to  be  used.  The  table  will  be  a  guide, 
but  the  quantities  may  be  increased  or  diminished  as  desired. 


CANNING  FRUITS. 
Method  I. 

Cook  fruit  gently  in  syrup  until  soft,  taking  care  not  to  pierce  it 
with  a  fork,  and  not  to  cook  it  too  much.  When  done  it  will  have  a 
translucent  appearance.  To  fill,  have  covers,  jars,  and  rubbers  washed 
and  sterilized.  The  fruit  should  be  poured  in  boiling  hot  and  jars 
immediately  sealed. 

Method  II.     {Fruit  cooked  in  jais.) 

Have  jars,  rubbers  and  covers  clean.  Place  fruit  (whole  if  possi- 
ble) in  jars  as  compactly  as  possible  without  destroying  shape.  Pour 
in  syrup  to  overflowing.  Lay  on  covers  but  do  not  screw  them  (do 
not  put  rubber-rings  on  until  afterwards. )  Place  on  a  trivet  in  kettle 
of  hot  water  or  surround  by  steam.  Cook  15  minutes.  When  removed 
from  stove,  pour  in  more  syrup  if  needed  (this  to  overflowing.)  Screw 
covers  down  tight,  wipe  off  and  label.    Put  away  when  cooled. 


MAKING  SYRUP. 

One-quarter  pound  sugar  boiled  with  1  pint  water  10  minutes  to 
each  pound  fruits.  Suitable  for  apples,  peaches,  pears,  quinces  and 
plums. 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  17 


TO  STERILIZE  JARS. 


Wash  jars  and  till  with  cold  water.  Set  in  a  kettle  on  a  trivet, 
and  surround  with  cold  water;  heat  gradually  to  boiling  point.  When 
ready  to  use,  remove  from  water,  empty  and  till  while  hot.  Put  covers 
in  boiling  water  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Dip  rubbers  into  hot  water 
but  do  not  allow  to  stand. 


TO  FILL  JAKS. 

While  filling,  stand  jars  on  towel  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Put  fruit 
in  scalding  hot.  and  till  to  overflowing.  Bun  spoon  or  knife  down  sides 
to  liberate  air  there.  Re-fill  and  screw  on  cover.  When  fruit  is  thor- 
oughly cold,  re-screw  cover  so  it  will  be  perfectly  tight. 


PRESERVING. 


The  difference  between  canning  and  preserving  is  that  in  the  latter 
a  larger  proportion  of  sugar  is  used — the  usual  amount  being  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit — and  the  fruit  is 
thoroughly  cooked.  The  methods  are  the  same  as  for  canning,  requir- 
ing only  a  longer  time  and  a  heavier  syrup. 


MARMALADES  AND  JAMS. 

Materials: — Pulp,  skins  and  juice  of  fruits. 

Proportions: — Three-fourths  pound  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit. 

Methods  of  Preparing: — Prepare  and  core  fruit,  place  in  layers, 
with  sugar  in  a  preserving  kettle.  Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  or  over 
night  if  possible.  Then  cook  it  slowly  until  it  becomes  a  thick,  jelly- 
like mass.  Stir  frequently  to  break  the  fruit.  When  tender  put  in 
sterilized  tumblers  and  cover  with  paraffine. 


Preserving 


GENERAL  RULES. 

Marmalades  and  jams  are  made  usually  from  pulp  left  from  jelly- 
making,  or  from  fruit  too  ripe  for  canning  or  preserving. 

Jams  are  made  from  pulp,  juice  and  skins. 

Marmalades  contain  pulp  and  juice,  but  generally  no  skins. 

Most  cook  books  make  no  distinction  between  jams  and  marma- 
lades. 


JELLIES. 
GRAPE  JELLY. 
Boil  grape  juice  20  min.  to  allow  water  to  evaporate.     To  each 
quart  of  juice  add  one-half  pound  sugar.     Boil  gently  for  live  min- 
utes, or  till  it  will  congeal  when  cold.    Grapes  vary  in  the  amount  of 
water  they  contain.    Pour  into  sterilized  glasses. 

Test  for  Jelly 
Dip  a  spoon  into  the  liquid,  hold  it  up  and  let  it  drop  back,  the 
last  drop  will  stay  on  the  spoon  or  cut  off  from  the  spoon.    Take  out 
little  in  saucer,  will  gelatinize  when  cold. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 
Eight  quarts  peaches. 
One  quart  sugar. 
Three  quarts  water. 

Directions 
Put  sugar  and  water  in  a  stewpan,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Remove  skins  from  peaches,  cut  in  halves,  remove  all  stones  but  one 
or  two.    Put  a  layer  of  peaches  in  syrup,  cook  until  peaches  are  soft. 
Put  in  sterilized  jars. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

18  ripe  tomatoes  6  T.  sugar 

7  green  peppers  2  T.  ground  cloves 

3  onions  2  T.  cinnamon 

2  T.  salt  2  C.  vinegar 

Directions 
Remove  skins  from  tomatoes  and  chop  peppers  and  onions  fine, 
add  other  ingredients.    Cover  and  boil  gently  1%  hours. 


L  VBORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  1!) 

YELLOW  TOMATO  PBESERVE. 

Two  pounds  yellow  tomatoes,  one-half  pound  granulated  sugar, 
one  medium  sized  lemon — juice  of  one  half,  and  the  other  half  cut  in 
very  thin  slices;  one-eighth  cup  ginger  root. 

Directions: — Peel  tomatoes  in  the  usual  way,  add  sugar,  lemon, 
and  ginger  root.  Let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  into  ket- 
tle, cook  until  tomatoes  are  soft.  Remove  tomatoes  and  put  them  into 
sterilized  bottles.  Cook  the  liquid  to  a  thick  syrup.  Tour  over  toma- 
toes and  seal. 

INDIAN  SAUCE. 
12  large  ripe  tomatoes  1  lb.  chopped  raisins 

12  apples  i/2  C.  salt 

1  gal.  vinegar  1  green  pepper 

2  lbs.  brown  sugar  6  medium  onions 
Directions: — Boil   all  together  1  hour  covered.     Strain.     Add  2 

T.  ground  ginger.     Add  one-eighth  pound  mustard  mixed  with  one- 
half  of  the  vinegar.    Boil  one-half  hour.    Bottle. 

RHUBARB  MARMALADE. 

1  lb.  walnuts  4  lemons 

4  lbs.  rhubarb  6  lbs.  sugar 

Directions: — Cut  fruit  into  1  inch  pieces.     Put  in  kettle  with  1 

pint  water.     Boil  until  soft  and  thick,  add  sugar  and  lemons.     Add 

nuts  when  nearly  done. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

i/o  peck  green  tomatoes    (small)     2  T.  allspice       ) 
y2  C.  vinegar  2  T.  cloves  (•        unground 

4  C.  sugar  (brown)  or  2  C.  maple  2  T.  cinnamon    ) 
sugar 
Directions: — Halve  tomatoes.  Soak  in  weak  brine  (%  C.  salt  to  1 
gallon  water)  over  night.    Place  spices  in  cheese  cloth  bag,  add  sugar 
and  vinegar.    Cook  all  together  until  tomato  is  soft.     Can  hot. 

OLIVE  OIL  PICKLES. 

Cover  4  quarts  of  sliced  cucumbers  with  boiling  water,  when  cold 
cover  with  weak  brine,  %  C.  salt  to  1  gal.  water.  Let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain,  add  y2  t.  cloves,  y2  t.  allspice,  y2  t.  celery  seed, 
2  t.  cinnamon,  y2  C.  olive  oil,  y2  C.  sugar,  y2  C.  mustard  seed.  Cold 
vinegar  to  cover.    Bottle. 

KETCHUP. 
1  peck  ripe  tomatoes  1  T.  cloves 

3  C.  vinegar  5  T.  sugar 


20  TEE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIEXCE  SCHOOL 

1  T.  ground  allspice  2  T.  salt 

2  T.  cinnamon  1  t.  red  pepper 
Directions: — Wash  tomatoes  and  cut  in  halves.     Put  in  kettle, 

cook  covered  until  soft  and  pulpy.  Sift,  exclude  seeds — add  season- 
ings and  vinegar.  Cook  until  thick,  then  simmer  down  about  one-half. 
Bottle  while  hot.    Will  make  5  bottles. 

GEAPE  JUICE. 

Wash  grapes  and  pick  from  stems.  Put  fruit  in  kettle,  heat  slowly 
and  boil  gently  20  minutes  or  until  the  seeds  separate  from  pulp. 
Drain  through  cheese  cloth  or  jelly  bag  ovr  night. 

To  1  quart  juice  add  %  C  sugar.  Heat  to  boiling  point.  Seal  in 
bottles.    Wild  grapes  preferred. 

APPLE  CHUTNEY. 
12  sour  apples  (pared,  cored  and  cut  into  small  pieces 
2  green  peppers,   chopped  2  C.  sugar 

1  red  pepper,  chopped  Juice  four  lemons 

1   C.  raisins,   chopped  1  T.  ground  ginger 

1  pt.  cider  vinegar  14  t.  cayenne 

i/2  C.  currant  jelly  1  T.  salt 

Boil  all  until  thick. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 
2  qts.  ripe  grapes,  vinegar  to  cover 
1  C.  sugar  1  T.  cloves 

1  T.  cinnamon  1  T.  allspice 
!/4  t.  cayenne 

Cook  grapes  in  vinegar  until  soft,  strain,  add  sugar  and  spices 
and  cook  until  thick. 

CHOWT  CHOW. 

1  pk.  green  tomatoes  2  qts.  vinegar 

1  C.  salt  1  t.  white  pepper 

6  small  onions  1  T.  cinnamon 

1  head  celery  1  T.  allspice 

2  C.  brown  sugar  1  T.  mustard 
Directions: — Chop  tomatoes,  mix  salt  with  them,  let  stand  over 

night.  In  morning  pour  off  water.  Chop  onion  and  celery.  Mix  all 
together.     Pour  on  vinegar  and  cook  till  soft. 

CANNED  QUINCES  AND  PEARS. 

4  lbs.  quinces  2  lbs.  pears  (Seckel) 

2  lbs.  sugar  1  qt.  water 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  21 

Directions: — Pare  and  quarter  quinces,  pare  pears,  and  leave 
whole.    Simmer  from  2  to  3  hours  in  covered  <lish  in  oven.    Bottle  hot. 

SECKEL  PEAK  SAUCE. 
Pare  pears  and  put  in  saucepan.    Cover  with  boiling  water.    Add 
to  each  quart   of  pears   y2  C.  brown  sugar.      Put   in   oven,  cook  until 
soft,  i lien  add  sliced  lemon  cut  in  line  pieces.     Serve  cold. 

PEACH  SAUCE. 
Remove  skins,  cut  peaches  in  small  pieces,  cook  in  syrup,   1  C. 
water,  Vi  C.  sugar,  until  soft. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

y2  pk.  ripe  cucumbers  14  C.  vinegar 

i  C.  sugar  2  T.  cloves 

2  T.  cinnamon   (unground)  2  T.  allspice 

Peel  cucumbers  and  remove  seeds.  Cut  in  half  lengthwise,  then 
cut  in  narrow  strips  4in.  Soak  in  weak  brine  over  night.  Put  spices 
in  cheese  cloth  bag.    Cook  all  until  soft.    Bottle  hot. 

CANNED  PINEAPPLES. 
Remove  eves  and  skin  from  pineapples,  then  cut  in  one-half-inch 
slices.     Cook  in  boiling  water  until  nearly  soft,  then  put  in  syrup  to 
finish  cooking;  place  in  can  so  that  the  rings  of  pineapple  stand  up- 
right against  the  sides  of  the  jar. 

PRESERVED  PEARS. 

Leave  whole  or  cut  in  two  length  wise,  splitting  the  stem.  Weigh 
the  pears,  and  boil  until  in  just  enough  water  to  cover.  When  tender 
take  them  out  and  make  a  syrup  of  the  water  in  Avhich  they  were  boiled, 
allowing  one  pint  of  water  and  one  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound 
fruit.  Boil  the  syrup  one  hour,  then  put  in  pears  and  one  sliced  lemon 
to  every  pound.  Boil  gently  forty  minutes,  then  take  up  and  put  in 
jars.    Boil  the  syrup  until  thick,  and  pour  over  the  pears. 

Pears  preserve  their  shape  better  if  the  second  method  given  under 
Canning  is  used,  using  a  syrup  of  thirty  degrees. 

PRESERVED  PLUMS. 

Remove  the  skins  or  not.  To  prevent  bursting,  prick  plums  with  a 
large  needle  in  several  places.    Follow  method  for  peaches  or  pears. 

YELLOW  TOMATO  PRESERVES. 
One  pound  ripe  tomatoes  after  removing  skins. 
One  pound  granulated  sugar. 


22  TEE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

A  little  ginger- root. 

Make  as  many  pounds  as  desired.  Boil  gently  two  hours,  then  add 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  to  every  pound  of  sugar.  Boil 
one-half  hour,  or  longer  if  too  thin.  Bottle  hot.  Take  skin  off  ginger- 
root  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  it. 

PRESEEVED  GRAPES. 
Press  the  pulp  out  of  each  grape.     Boil  the  pulps  until  tender, 
then  pass  through  a  colander  to  remove  the  seeds.    Mix  the  skins  with 
the  pulp  and  juice,  add  as  many  cupfuls  of  sugar  as  of  grapes,  and 
boil  till  thick.    Seal  hot. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Pick  over,  wash,  drain  and  hull  strawberries.  Fill  jars  with  ber- 
ries. Make  a  syfrup  of  thirty  degrees.  Add  syrup  to  fruit  to  overflow 
jars;  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  when  fruit  will  have  shrunk,  and  more 
fruit  must  be  added  to  fill  jars.  Screw  on  covers  loosely;  put  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  water,  heat  to  boiling  point,  and  keep  just  below  boiling 
point  one  hour. 

Raspberries  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  way. 

JELLIES. 

Jellies  are  made  of  cooked  fruit-juice  and  sugar,  in  nearly  all  cases 
the  proportion  of  sugar  being  one-half.  Where  failures  occur,  they 
may  usually  be  traced  to  the  use  of  over-ripe  fruit. 

Prepare  glasses  for  jelly  the  same  as  for  canning  and  preserving. 

To  cover  jelly-glasses:  (1)  cut  letter-paper  in  circular  pieces  to 
just  fit  the  top  of  glasses,  dip  in  brandy  or  alcohol;  (2)  place  tin  cov- 
ers firmly;  (3)  pour  on  melted  paraffine. 

To  make  a  jelly-bag  fold  opposite  corners  of  a  piece  of  cotton-and- 
wool  flannel  three-fourths  yard  long.  Sew  up  in  the  form  of  a  cornu- 
copia, rounding  at  the  end.  Fell  the  seam  to  make  more  secure.  Bind 
the  top  with  tape  and  furnish  two  or  three  heavy  loops  by  which  it  may 
be  hung. 

APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  apples;  remove  stems  and  blossom  ends,  then 
cut  into  pieces  without  paring  or  coring.  (Note:  The  jelly  is  clearer 
to  core  the  apples.)  Put  the  fruit  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and 
barely  cover  with  cold  water.  Cover  and  cook  slowly,  until  the  apples 
are  very  tender.  Drain  through  a  flannel  bag  without  pressing  or 
squeezing,  as  either  one  will  make  the  jelly  cloudy.  To  each  pint  of 
juice  allow  one  pound  granulated  sugar.  Bring  the  juice  to  boiling- 
point  and  skim,  add  the  sugar  heated,  and  boil  rapidly  until  it  jellies, 
removing  the  scum  as  it  rises  to  the  surface.    It  will  take  about  twenty 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  23 

to  thirty  minutes.  Commence  testing  after  fifteen  minutes'  boiling  by 
taking  a  spoonful  in  a  saucer  and  standing  it  for  a  moment  in  a  cool 
place.  If  it  jellies  on  the  surface  quickly,  it  is  done.  Pour  into  hot 
sterilized  tumblers,  cool,  and  cover  with  paraffine. 

CRAB-APPLE  JELLY. 
Make  the  same  as  Apple  Jelly. 
Quince  Jelly  made  the  same  as  Apple. 

APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Pare,core  and  cut  in  thin  slices  ripe,  tart  apples.  To  each  pound  of 
fruit  allow  one  pound  sugar  and  one  gill  water.  Put  sugar  and  water 
in  kettle,  and  when  dissolved  add  apples.  For  each  two  pounds  of 
apples  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Simmer  gently 
until  apples  look  clear.  Watch  carefully,  and  stir  frequently  to  pre- 
vent scorching.    Put  into  glass  jars  and  seal. 

CRAB-APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Proceed  the  same  as  for  Apple  Marmalade. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 
Pare,  core,  and  cut  into  pieces  the  fruit.  Put  the  skins  and  cores 
into  a  kettle,  cover  with  water,  and  boil  thirty  minutes,  or  until  ten- 
der. Strain  off  water,  and  as  much  pulp  as  will  pass  through  the  col- 
ander. Add  the  rest  of  the  fruit,  and  boil  with  three-fourths  pound 
sugar  to  one  pound  fruit.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  jelly.  It  becomes 
solid,  and  is  served  cut  into  slices.  The  Russians  cut  it  into  inch 
squares,  and  serve  it  as  a  bonbon. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Allow  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  to  every  five  oranges. 
Weigh  the  fruit  before  cutting  it,  and  allow  three-fourths  pound  sugar 
to  one  pound  fruit.  Remove  the  peel  in  quarters,  and  boil  it  in  plenty 
of  water,  until  it  is  tender  enough  to  pierce  easily  with  a  broom-straw, 
then  drain  off  the  water  and  let  it  cool.  Remove  the  seeds  and  as  much 
of  the  skin  as  possible  from  the  pulp.  Boil  the  pulp  with  the  sugar 
until  the  orange  is  well  cooked.  When  the  peel  is  cool,  take  one  piece 
at  a  time  in  the  palm  of  the  hand  and  with  a  tablespoon  cut  out  all 
the  white  pithy  part,  leaving  the  thin  yellow  rind.  Place  a  number  of 
these  pieces  together,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  them  in  thin  shreds 
on  a  board.  By  cutting  many  together  in  this  way,  it  is  done  quickly. 
Add  the  shredded  rinds  to  the  cooked  oranges  and  let  them  cook  until 
of  the  right  consistency.  It  should  be  very  thick,  but  not  solid  like 
jelly.    This  is  a  very  good  marmalade,  and  resembles  the  Dundee  brand. 

Note — Add  but  very  little  of  the  shredded  rind  if  it  is  not  desired 
bitter. 


Relishes 


f  FEUIT  COCKTAIL. 

Cut  equal  portions  of  orange,  banana  and  pineapple,  add  one-half 
amount  of  grapefruit,  add  sugar  to  fruit,  chill  and  serve  in  cocktail 
glasses.     Garnish  with  strawberries. 

PICCALILLY. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  6  medium  sized  onions 
iy2  cups  salt                                                 Vinegar 

1 1.  tumeric  powder  1  t.  cloves 

2  t.  cinnamon  2  cups  sugar 

1  red  pepper 

Slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  stand  over 
night.  Drain  in  a  bag.  Turn  mixture  into  kettle,  add  vinegar  to  cover. 
Set  over  fire.  Mix  tumeric  powder  with  a  little  vinegar.  Add  other 
ingredients.    Mix  all.    Cook  till  tender.    Stir  occasionally. 

APPLE  JAM. 
Peel,  core  and  chop  tart  apples.  For  each  pound  of  apples  allow 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  with  water  to 
dissolve,  add  the  apples  and  for  every  two  pounds  apple  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon.  Add  a  few  pieces  of  ginger.  Cook  till  apples  look 
clear  and  yellow.    Put  in  sterilized  jars. 

PHILADELPHIA  RELISH. 

2  cups  cabbage  14  cup  brown  sugar 
1  green  pepper                                            14  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  celery  1  T.  gelatine 

Hydrate  gelatine.  Chop  vegetables  very  fine.  Add  sugar  and 
vinegar.  Dissolve  gelatine  over  hot  water  and  add.  Put  in  moulds. 
Mustard  y2  t.  and  V2  t.  celery  seed  in  ay  be  added  if  desired. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Allow  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  to  every  5  oranges. 
Weigh  fruit  before  cutting  it,  and  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit. 
Remove  the  peel  in  quarters  and  boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  until  it  is 
tender  enough  to  pierce  easily.  Drain  off  water  and  cool.  Remove 
seeds  and  as  much  of  the  membrane  as  possible  from  pulp.  Boil  pulp 
and  sugar  till  well  cooked.  When  peel  is  cool  take  one  piece  at  a  time 
and  remove  all  the  white  pithy  part,  leaving  the  thin  yellow  rind. 
Place  a  number  of  these  pieces  together  on  a  board  and  with  a  sharp, 


L  YBORATORT  COOK  HOOK.  25 

thin  knife  cut  them  in  thin  shreds.  Add  the  shredded  rinds  to  the 
cooked  oranges  and  lei  them  cook  until  of  the  righl  consistency — 
thick,  but  not  solid.     Seal  hot.     Too  much  rind  will  render  it  bitter. 

GRAPE  FRUIT. 
Wash  grape  fruit,  cut  in  half,  remove  seeds.  Cut  out  pulp  in  cen- 
tre with  scissors  or  grape  fruit  knife.  Cu1  around  pulp  and  skin,  then 
separate  pulp  from  tough  portion  which  divides  Fruit  into  sections. 
Add  1  t.  sugar  iu  centre  of  each.  Oysters  may  be  added  in  centre,  or 
fruit  juices. 

PICCALILLI. 
4  doz.  small  cucumbers  1  small  cabbage 

3  qts.  small  green  string-beans  1  t.  ginger 
or  1  doz.  green  tomatoes  1  t.  pepper 

4  red  peppers  1  t.  mace 

4  green  peppers  Vinegar  to  cover 

y±  stick  mustard  seed 

Tie  spices  in  muslin  bag.  Chop  vegetables  and  cover  with  weak 
brine.  (1  c.  Xacl  plus  4  qts.  water.)  Let  stand  over  night.  Drain. 
Cover  with  hot  vinegar,  add  spice  bag  and  let  stand  till  next  morning. 
Eeheat  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  pickles.  Continue  3  days.  Seal  in 
jars. 

SCALLOP  COCKTAIL. 

V-2  pt.  small  scallops  1  t.  chives 

3/4  t.  salt  y2  t.  chopped  shallot 

^4  t.  white  pepper  %  t.  olive  oil 

1  t.  chopped  parsley  10  drops  tabasco  sauce 
iy2  t.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  T.  tomato  catsup 

y8  t.  dry  mustard  1  t.  grated  horse-radish 

2  T.  vinegar 


RHUBARB  GINGER. 

Peel  rhubarb,  cut  in  cubes  Juice  y2  lemon,  yellow  of 

2  C.  rhubarb  cubes  rind,  cut  in  thin  short 

1  C.  sugar  strips 

%  c-  ginger  root,  cut  thin 
Cover,  cook  till  thick  as  marmalade. 


Relishes 


FRUIT  COCKTAIL. 

Cut  equal  portions  of  orange,  banana  and  pineapple,  add  one-half 
amount  of  grapefruit,  add  sugar  to  fruit,  chill  and  serve  in  cocktail 
glasses.     Garnish  with  strawberries. 

PICCALILLY. 

1  peck  green  tomatoes  6  medium  sized  onions 

1%  cups  salt  Vinegar 

1  t.  tumeric  powder  1  t.  cloves 

2  t.  cinnamon  2  cups  sugar 

1  red  pepper 

Slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  stand  over 
night.  Drain  in  a  bag.  Turn  mixture  into  kettle,  add  vinegar  to  cover. 
Set  over  fire.  Mix  tumeric  powder  with  a  little  vinegar.  Add  other 
ingredients.    Mix  all.    Cook  till  tender.    Stir  occasionally. 

APPLE  JAM. 
Peel,  core  and  chop  tart  apples.  For  each  pound  of  apples  allow 
a  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  with  water  to 
dissolve,  add  the  apples  and  for  every  two  pounds  apple  the  grated 
rind  of  a  lemon.  Add  a  few  pieces  of  ginger.  Cook  till  apples  look 
clear  and  yellow.     Put  in  sterilized  jars. 

PHILADELPHIA  RELISH. 

2  cups  cabbage  y±  cup  brown  sugar 
1  green  pepper                                            14  cup  vinegar 

1  cup  celery  1  T.  gelatine 

Hydrate  gelatine.  Chop  vegetables  very  line.  Add  sugar  and 
vinegar.  Dissolve  gelatine  over  hot  water  and  add.  Put  in  moulds. 
Mustard  y2  t.  and  y2  t.  celery  seed  may  be  added  if  desired. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 
Allow  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  to  every  5  oranges. 
Weigh  fruit  before  cutting  it,  and  allow  %  lb.  sugar  to  1  lb.  fruit. 
Remove  the  peel  in  quarters  and  boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  until  it  is 
tender  enough  to  pierce  easily.  Drain  off  water  and  cool.  Remove 
seeds  and  as  much  of  the  membrane  as  possible  from  pulp.  Boil  pulp 
and  sugar  till  well  cooked.  When  peel  is  cool  take  one  piece  at  a  time 
and  remove  all  the  white  pithy  part,  leaving  the  thin  yellow  rind. 
Place  a  number  of  these  pieces  together  on  a  board  and  with  a  sharp, 


RHUBARB  GINGER. 

Peel  rhubarb,  cut  in  cubes  Juice  %  lemon,  yellow  of 

2  C.  rhubarb  cubes  rind,  cut  in  thin  short 

1  C.  sugar  strips 

%  C.  ginger  root,  cut  thin 
Cover,  cook  till  thick  as  marmalade. 


** 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  25 

thin  knife  cut  them  in  (liin  shreds.  Add  the  shredded  rinds  to  the 
cooked  oranges  and  Let  them  cook  until  of  the  right  consistency — 
thick,  bul  not  solid.    Seal  hot.    Too  much  rind  will  render  \\  bitter. 

GRAPE  FRUIT. 
Wash  grape  fruit,  cut  in  half,  remove  seeds.  Cut  out  pulp  in  cen- 
tre with  scissors  or  grape  fruit  knife.  Cut  around  pulp  and  skin,  then 
separate  pulp  from  tough  portion  which  divides  fruit  into  sections. 
Add  1  t.  sugar  in  centre  of  each.  Oysters  may  be  added  in  centre,  or 
fruit  juices. 

PICCALILLI. 
4  doz.  small  cucumbers  1  small  cabbage 

3  qts.  small  green  string-beans  1  t.  ginger 
or  1  doz.  green  tomatoes  1  t.  pepper 

4  red  peppers  1  t.  mace 

4  green  peppers  Vinegar  to  cover 

14  stick  mustard  seed 

Tie  spices  in  muslin  bag.  Chop  vegetables  and  cover  with  weak 
brine.  (1  c.  Nacl  plus  4  qts.  wTater.)  Let  stand  over  night.  Drain. 
Cover  with  hot  vinegar,  add  spice  bag  and  let  stand  till  next  morning. 
Reheat  vinegar  and  pour  over  the  pickles.  Continue  3  days.  Seal  in 
jars. 

SCALLOP  COCKTAIL. 

V2  Pr-  small  scallops  1  t.  chives 

%  t.  salt  y2  t.  chopped  shallot 

%  t.  white  pepper  y2  t.  olive  oil 

1  t.  chopped  parsley  10  drops  tabasco  sauce 
1%  t.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  T.  tomato  catsup 

y8  t.  dry  mustard  1  t.  grated  horse-radish 

2  T.  vinegar 

Cook  scallops  5  minutes,  drain,  add  to  sauce,  chill  and  serve  in 
cocktail  glasses. 

SPICED  GRAPE. 

7  lbs.  Concord  grapes  4  lbs.  brown  sugar 

1  qt.  vinegar  .1  T.  cinnamon 

1  T.  clove  1/2  t.  white  pepper 

Directions:  Separate  skins  of  grapes  from  pulp.  Cook  the  pulp 
until  seeds  can  be  removed  easily.  Put  through  puree  sieve.  Add 
skins,  sugar  and  vinegar.  Cook  iy2  hours,  until  skins  are  tender. 
Acid  spices,  cook  10  minutes,  covered.    Seal  hot. 


26  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

ABBREVIATIONS.  EQUIVALENTS. 

T.   equals    tablespoon       4  ssp.  equal  1  t. 

t.  equals   teaspoon       3  t.  equal IT. 

Ssp.  equals saltspoon       1  T.  equal  y±  C. 

C.   equals    cupful      16  T.    (dry  material)    equal  1  C. 

Spk.   equals    speck      12  T.    (wet  material)    equal  1  C. 

F.  G.  equals   a  few  grains       2  T.  butter  equal 1  ounce 

M.  equals  minute       1  T.  flour  equal 1  ounce 

H.  equals   hour       2  C.  butter  equal 1  pound 

Qt.  equals quart       4  C.  flour  equal   1  pound 

Ft.  equals   pint       2  C.  meat  chopped  fine  equal  1  lb. 

Lb.  equals pound       2  C.  granulated  sugar  equal  1  lb. 

Oz.   equals    ounce     1  square  Baker's  chocolate 

equals  1  ounce 
1  T.  cornstarch  equals  1  egg  in 

thickening  properties 

Small  quantities  of  flavoring  are  measured  by  drops.     It  is  usual 
to  allow  sixty  drops  of  thin  liquids  to  a  teaspoon. 


MEASURING. 


1.  Flour  should  be  sifted  before  measuring,  then  sifted  again  into 
other  ingredients. 

2.  Meal,  powdered  and  confectioner's  sugar  and  mustard,  should  be 

sifted  before  measuring  and  should  be  placed  in  the  measuring- 
cup  lightly  with  a  spoon,  not  packed  hard. 

3.  All  materials  to  be  measured  level;  the  levelling  to  be  done  with 

the  back  of  a  case-knife  and  without  patting  down  material. 
1.     To  measure  butter,  lard,  or  any  other  solid  fat,  pack  solidly  into 
cup  or  spoon  and  make  level  with  a  knife.    When  butter  is  bought 
in  prints  it  is  simpler  to  divide  by  ounces  than  by  the  tablespoon. 
Two  level  tablespoons  of  butter  equal  one  ounce. 

5.  For  half  a  spoon,  divide  the  spoonful  lengthwise.    A    half    of    a 

spoonful  is  divided  crosswise  to  measure  a  quarter,  and  a  quarter 

crosswise  to  measure  an  eighth.     Less  than  one-eighth  is  called 

"a  few  grains."    A  speck  of  anything  is  as  much  as  will  lie  on  the 

tip  of  a  pointed  knife. 

A  cupful  of  liquid  is  all  the  cup  will  hold. 

A  saltspoon  equals  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoon. 

6.  Baking  powder  should  be  shaken  up  lightly  with  a  spoon  before 
measuring. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  27 

SOME  GENERAL  RULES. 

Sift  all  dry  ingredients  before  measuring. 

Pack  down  all  fats  before  measuring. 

All  ingredients,  except  fats,  are  measured  lightly. 

A  liquid  cupful  is  all  a  cup  will  hold. 

All  measurements  are  level. 

Glass  cup  is  used  for  liquids  and  fats.  Never  pour  hot  liquid  into 
glass  cup. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  is  measured  before  melting. 

All  cups  or  spoons  should  be  heaped  full  and  measured  off  with 
a  knife  and  never  shaken  off. 

Measure  half  tablespoons  and  teaspoons  lengthwise. 

When  dry  ingredients,  liquids,  and  fats  are  called  for  in  the  same 
recipe,  measure  m  the  order  given,  using  the  standard  measuring 
cup. 


Foods 

Our  foods  are  derived  from  the  mineral,  vegetable,  and  animal 
kingdoms  and  from  the  air  we  breathe  while  rest,  sleep  and  recreation 
are  also  foods  especially  for  nerves. 

The  mineral  foods  are  of  two  kinds,  the  inorganic  and  the  organic. 
Water  and  common  salt,  sodium  chloride,  are  the  two  most  common 
inorganic  compounds  that  we  use  directly  as  foods;  while  the  organic 
mineral  compounds  are  found  chemically  combined  in  all  our  vege- 
table and  animal  foods.  To  prepare  our  food  in  such  a  way  as  to  pre- 
serve and  not  liberate  these  organic  mineral  compounds  is  one  of  the 
vital  principles  of  the  science  and  art  of  cooking. 

We  absorb  and  assimilate  these  organic  mineral  compounds  read- 
ily and  they  enter  into  the  chemical  composition,  in  varying  amounts 
and  kinds,  in  every  cell  in  the  body. 


CLASSES  OF  FOODS. 
1.     Mineral 


J  inorganic 
1  organic 


2.     Nitrogenous. 

i    Glycerides 
3.     Carbonaceous  ■<    Carbohydrates 

(    Organic  Acids 

The  nitrogenous  foods  constitute  the  fundamental  principle  of  cell 
life;  they  contain  nitrogen  and  yield  nitrates,  nitrites  and  ammonia 
when  decomposed  outside  the  body  by  certain  bacteria;  hence  their 
name  nitrogenous.  One  of  the  purest  forms  of  nitrogenous  food  is  the 
white  of  egg;  other  examples  are  fish,  cheese,  most  of  solid  part  of  eggs, 
lean  meat  of  all  kinds;  lobster,  mushrooms  and  gluten  of  wheat. 

Proteid  or  nitrogenous  food  should  be  cooked  by  gentle  heat  as 
firmly  coagulated  proteid  is  a  wholly  different  substance  chemically 
than  the  delicately  coagulated.  When  cooked  hard  and  dry  it  is  much 
more  difficult  of  digestion.  After  meats  are  seared  to  retain  juices 
they  should  then  be  cooked  by  a  lower  heat.  The  proteid  foods  are 
found  most  abundant  in  the  animal  world. 

The  carbonaceous  foods  consist  largely  of  carbon  and  water  and 
are  among  the  most  rapidly  formed  in  the  vegetable  kingdom.  The 
starches  and  sugars  are  the  principal  types  of  this  class.  Potato,  rice, 
tapioca,  full  grown  peas  and  beans,  bananas — vegetables  and  fruits. 
Combined  with  the  starch  and  sugar  we  find  the  organic  acids  and 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  29 

sails.  The  sugar,  salts  and  acids  arc  easily  lost  or  destroyed  in  pre- 
paring and  cooking  these  foods.     Vegetables  and  fruits  should  not  be 

soaked  in  water.  Wash  with  brush,  do  not  scrape,  cook  quickly,  cov- 
ered and  reabsorb  as  much  of  water  as  possible.  Baking  is  a  more 
economical  process.  Thrust  into  boiling  water  to  cook.  Leave  cover 
otr*  in  cooking  vegetables  rich  in  sulphur  compounds;  as  beans,  cab- 
bage, cauliflower,  brussel  sprouts,  onions. 

Wash  spinach  in  seven  waters  without  soaking  and  cook  covered 
in  water  that  adheres  to  leaves.  Cellulose  and  starchy  part  of  turnips 
may  be  converted  to  dextrine  by  cooking  by  baking  proeess.  In  this 
way  valuable  salts  are  preserved.  Cellulose  of  onions  may  be  con- 
verted to  sugar  by  baking  process  and  starch  of  bananas  to  dextrine 
and  sugar  by  same  process.  Steaming  also  is  better  than  boiling.  If 
the  nutrients  be  lost  in  preparing  vegetables  and  fruits,  cellulose,  a 
liber,  is  about  all  that  is  left.  It  is  uot  a  nutrient.  Celery,  spinach, 
asparagus,  tomatoes,  lettuce,  riee  are  rich  iu  organic  mineral  matter. 
Do  not  waste  it.    The  human  body  needs  it. 

The  glycerides  are  the  fats  and  oils  of  all  foods.  They  consist  of 
fatty  acids  and  glycerine  combined  chemically.  They  should,  be  kept 
cool  and  covered  tightly.  Fats  exposed  to  the  air  are  acted  upon 
chemically  by  the  oxygen  of  the  air  and  the  fatty  acid  is  thus  set  free. 
This  is  the  first  step  on  the  road  to  rancidity  which  renders  fat  unfit 
for  household  use. 

All  kinds  of  fats  and  oils  contain  acids.  Cream  is  the  most  easily 
digested  of  fats  and  olive  oil  ranks  next.  Olive  oil  contains  hydro- 
chloric acid  free,  which  is  a  natural  antiseptic.  Fats  require  more 
oxygen  for  their  combustion  than  starches  and  thus  yield  more  heat. 
They  should  be  eaten  more  freely  in  winter  than  any  other  season. 
Fats  and  oils  are  found  abundant  iu  the  animal  kingdom.  Egg  yolk 
contains  considerable  fat,  and  oysters  a  little.  In  the  vegetable  world 
nuts  yield  the  most  while  carrots  and  parsnips  contain  some  and  beans 
and  potatoes  only  a  trace.  The  volatile  oils  are  easily  lost  by  the  boil- 
ing process. 

The  organic  acids  are  found  in  all  foods  and  by  uniting  with  bases 
form  compounds  that  render  the  blood  and  lymph  alkaline  in  health. 
Preserve  the  acids. 

Proteid   Foods:  Carbohydrate  Foods: 

lean  meat  rice 

fish  potato 

cheese  tapioca 

egg  beans 

milk  peas 

mushrooms  wheat 

young  peas,  beans  corn 

artichokes  sugar 


30 


THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 


Glycerides: 

fats 

oils 

butternuts 

English  walnuts 

olive  oil 

cream 

butter 


'Nerve  Building  Foods 
yolk  of  egg 
fat  of  meat 
fat  of  fish 
cream 
olive  oil 
almonds 
sleep 
fresh  air 


Organic  Acids: 
Malic — in  apples 
Oxalic — in  rhubarb 

Acetic — in  oranges,  lemons,  fruits,  molasses,  vinegar,  vegetables. 
Citric — lemons,  milk 
Tartaric — grapes 
Hydrochloric — olive  oil 
1  [ydrocyanic — peaches,  cherry 
Lactic  Acid — buttermilk,  milk 


spinach 

beans 

carrots 


Foods  Containing  Organic  Iron. 
young  beets  celery 

yolk  of  egg  lettuce 

beef  almoinb 


Foods  Containing  Potassium  and  Sodium: 
lemons                                celery  beans 

potatoes  lettuce  egg 

tomatoes  .     buttermilk  cauliflower 


rice 

celery 

beef 


liver 


milk 


beef 
celery 


Foods  Containing  Calcium    (lime) 

milk  lettuce 

asparagus  fish 

egg  almonds 

buttermilk 

Foods  Rich   in   Glycogen    (Animal  Starch) 

oysters  clams  chocolate 

Foods  Containing  Magnesium: 

cocoanut  asparagus 

Foods  Containing  Phosphates: 

fish  egg  yolk 

lettuce  asparagus 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  31 

All  foods  yield  heat  when  binned  in  the  body,  but  the  Nitrogenous 
are  more  especially  muscle  and  tissue  building  while  the  Carbonaceous 
yield  heat  and  muscular  energy.  Fresh  air  is  important,  together  with 
exercise,  for  a  complete  utilization  of  food  that  it  may  yield  the  great- 
est efficiency  to  man. 


EXPERIMENTS  WITH  STARCH 

I.     Bro  port  ions. 


Water 

Starch 

Flavoring 

Time 

No.  1. 

Y2  pint 

IT. 

Lemon 

5  min. 

No.  2. 

y2  pint 

2  T. 

or 

30  min. 

No.  3. 

y2  pint 

3  T. 

Orange 

30  min. 

No.  4 

y2  pint 

4  T. 

5  min. 

No.  5 

y2  pint 

5T. 

5  min. 

II.  Methods  of  Mixing. 

(1)  Mix  starch  and  entire  quantity  of. cold  water  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Heat  to  boiling  point.  Note  stirring  necessary  and  the  length 
of  time  required  to  make  the  mixture  clear. 

(2)  Mix  the  starch  with  four  tablespoons  of  water.  Kaise  the 
remaining  portion  to  the  boiling  point;  add  the  starch-paste  slowly  to 
the  boiling  water. 

(3)  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  starch-paste. 

III.  Xote  the  following: 

1.  Compare  the  three  methods  as  to  length  of  time  required, 
efficiency. 

2.  Note  change  in  color,  consistency,  and  flavor. 

3.  Compare  starch  cooked  five  minutes  with  starch  cooked  thirty 
minutes;  hot  and  cold. 

4.  Note  the  thickness  of  each  mixture  while  hot,  and  for  what 

purpose  each  might  be  suitable,  e.  g.,  for  cream  toast;  for 
cream  soup;  for  croquettes. 

5.  Note  the  thickness  of  the  mixture  when  cold;  for  what  pur- 
pose each  might  be  suitable,  e.  g.,  cold  pudding  or  a  blanc 
mange. 

G.  In  using  milk  as  the  liquid,  what  change  in  method  of  cooking 
would  be  necessary?  When  should  flavoring  be  added? 
Lemon,  for  example. 


WHITE  SAUCE. 
1.     Proportions 

Liquid  Butter  Flour  Salt 

No.  1  1  pint  1  tbl.  1  tbl.  '  y2  tsp. 


32  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIEXCE  SCHOOL. 


No.  2 

1  pint 

2  tbl. 

2  tbl. 

i/2  tsp, 

No.  3 

1  pint 

3  tbl. 

3  tbl. 

y2  tsp, 

No.  4 

1  pint 

4  tbl. 

4  tbl. 

y2  tsp, 

No.  5 

1  pint 

5  tbl. 

5  tbl. 

i/2  tsp, 

II.     Methods  of  Cooking. 

1.  Melt  the  butter  and  cook  till  it  bubbles ;  add  the  flour ;  allow 
this  to  cool.  Add  the  liquid  cold  to  the  mixture,  and  heat  to  the  boil- 
ing point,  stirring  rapidly  all  the  time.  Boil  until  thickened,  about 
five  minutes.    Add  the  salt. 

2.  Proceed  as  in  No.  1,  except  add  the  milk  hot  to  the  flour  and 
butter. 

3.  Cream  butter  and  flour,  add  liquid,  and  cook  over  the  fire 
until  thick. 

4.  Cook  flour  in  liquid,  add  butter,  a  little  at  a  time,  just  before 
taking  from  the  fire. 


■& 


CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 

1  pint  milk  Whites  3  eggs 

C>  T.  cornstarch  y2  tsp.  vanilla 

C  T.  sugar  iy2  squares  Baker's  chocolate 

DIRECTIONS. 

Dissolve  the  cornstarch  in  a  little  of  the  cold  milk.  Place  the  re- 
maining milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  add  the  sugar.  When  scalded* 
add  the  cornstarch,  and  place  directly  over  the  blaze,  stirring  until 
it  thickens;  then  return  to  the  double-boiler  and  cook  one-half  hour. 
Remove  from  the  fire,add  the  flavoring  and  the  beaten  whites.  Turn 
one-third  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan,  and  add  the  chocolate  melted. 
Let  it  cook  one  minute  to  set  the  chocolate.  Tour  into  a  plain  cylin- 
drical mould,  first  a  layer  of  white,  making  it  smooth  and  keeping  the 
edges  even ;  then  the  layer  of  chocolate — smooth  in  the  same  way;  then 
the  remaining  white  cornstarch,  making  three  even  layers.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Pleasing  variations  are  made  by  adding  one  cup  of  well  drained 
canned  fruit,  such  as  cherries,  strawberries,  raspberries,  peaches,  etc., 
when  the  cornstarch  is  sufficiently  set  to  hold  them  in  place.  Serve  the 
juice  of  the  fruit  as  a  sauce. 


BOILED  CUSTARD. 

1  pint  milk  %  saltspoon  salt 

yolks  3  eggs  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  sugar 
Boiled  custard  is  the  basis  of  many  puddings,  ice  creams   and 
sauces.     It  requires  care  to  get  it  just  right,  for  the  cooking  must  be 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK. 

arrested  a1  the  right  poinl  ;  a  momenl  too  soon  leaves  it  too  thin,  a 
moment  too  Long  cm-dies  and  spoils  it.  It  should  have  the  consistency 
of  thick  cream,  and  be  perfectly  smooth.  It  is  safer  to  make  it  in  a 
double  boiler.  Bring  the  milk  to  the  scalding  point  (in  the  double 
boiler)  without  boiling,  then  take  from  the  lire  and  pour  it  slowly  into 
i lie  eggs  and  sugar,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  cream;  stir  all  the 
time;  replace  on  the  fire  and  stir  till  the  custard  coats  the  spoon,  or  a 
smooth  creamy  consistency  is  attained,  then  immediately  strain  it  into 
a  cold  dish  and  add  the  flavoring.  If  vanilla  bean,  peach  leaves  or  lemon 
zest,  are  used  for  flavoring,  they  can  be  boiled  with  the  milk.  If  by 
accident  the  custard  begins  to  grain,  arrest  the  cooking  at  once  by 
putting  the  saucepan  in  cold  water;  add  a  little  cold  milk  and  beat  it 
vigorously  with  a  Dover  beater. 

Five  eggs  to  a  quart  of  milk  will  make  a  good  boiled  custard ;  but 
six  or  eight  make  it  richer.  It  is  smoother  when  the  yolks  only  are 
used,  yet  the  whole  egg  makes  a  good  custard;  and  in  the  emergency 
of  not  having  enough  eggs  at  hand  a  little  cornstarch  may  be  used. 

Boiled  custard  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla,  almond,  rose,  mara- 
schino, noyau,  caramel,  coffee,  chopped  almonds,  grated  cocoannt,  or 
pounded  macaroons.  The  cocoanut  makes  a  delicious  custard,  but 
must  be  rich  with  eggs,  and  stiff  enough  to  keep  the  cocoanut  from 
settling  to  the  bottom. 


CEREALS 

The  word  '"'cereal"  means  a  flowering  plant.  Cereals  are  the  most 
easily  grown  of  all  vegetables. 

They  contain  a  large  amount  of  starch,  and  that  is  why  they  re- 
quire so  long  a  time  to  cook — to  convert  the  starch  into  dextrine  so  as 
to  be  more  easily  assimilated  or  digested.  Starch  cannot  be  digested 
without  being  cooked. 

In  the  amount  consumed,  wheat  ranks  first  among  cereals;  rice 
comes  next,  and  then  maize,  or  corn.  The  red,  yellow  and  white  corn 
is  used ;  some  of  its  products  are  corn  meal,  corn  starch,  hominy,  samp 
and  cerealine. 

Oatmeal  contains  the  largest  amount  of  proteicl,  a  muscle  building 
property,  of  any  of  the  cereals ;  but  it  also  contains  the  smallest  amount 
of  fat  of  any  cereal. 

Corn  meal  contains  the  following  properties  in  the  proportions 
given  below : 

8  9-10%  proteid  matter 

2-10%  fat 

75  1-10%  starch 

9-10%  mineral  matter  (or  salts) 

12  9-10%  water 


34 


THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 


With  all  cereals,  the  aim  is  to  have  each  grain  separate.  For  this 
reason  it  is  better  to  use  the  coarse  corn  meal  for  mush  (the  yellow 
kind  is  best)  in  preference  to  the  bolted  corn  meal,  which  is  a  very  line 
grain  almost  like  powder. 

1.  Method  of  Cooking. 

Utensil :  Double  boiler.  Measure  the  water  and  cereal.  Bring  the 
required  amount  of  water  to  boiling  point  in  the  inner  part  of  the 
double  boiler.  Add  the  salt,  and  pour  in  the  cereal  slowly,  stirring 
with  a  fork,  so  grains  may  retain  shape.  Let  the  boiling  continue  until 
the  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  then  place  the  inner  part  of  the  double 
boiler  in  the  lower  portion,  which  should  contain  boiling  water.  Allow 
the  cereal  to  cook  until  soft.  No  cereal  should  be  cooked  less  than 
twenty  minutes  over  free  liame.  The  time  depends  upon  the  kind  of 
cereal  used. 

2.  Method  of  Serving. 

1.  Hot,  with  cream,  with  or  without  sugar. 

2.  Cool  in  moulds,  and  serve  cold.  With  jelly  or  fruit  it  makes 
a  simple  dessert  for  children. 

3.  When  cold,  slice,  and  brown  in  butter,  or  other  fat,  serving  hot. 


TABLE  FOE  COOKING  ' 

CEREALS. 

Time. 

Free 

Double 

Kind 

Quantity 

Salt 

Water 

Flame 

Boiler 

1. 

Farina 

1-3  C. " 

3/4  tsi)s- 

1  2 

3  C. 

20  miii. 

lhr. 

2. 

Barley  crystals 

1-3  C. 

y2  tsps. 

1 

C. 

20  min. 

lhr. 

3. 

Petti  John's  ' 

1-3  C. 

!/2  tsps. 

2 

c. 

25  min. 

1  hr. 

4. 

Steam  cooked  and 
Boiled  Wheats 

1-3  C. 

1/2  tsps. 

1 

c. 

20  min. 

1  hr. 

5. 

Steam  cooked  and 
Kolled  Oats 

1-3  C. 

i/o  tsps. 

1 

c. 

30  min. 

1  hr. 

6. 

Boiled  Avena 

1-3  C. 

l/o  tspS. 

1 

c. 

30  min. 

1  hr. 

7. 

Quaker  Boiled  Oats 

1-3  C. 

i/o  tsps. 

2 

c. 

30  min. 

3hr. 

8. 

Vitos 

1-3  C. 

i/o  tsps. 

1  1 

2C. 

30  min. 

1  hr. 

9. 

Wheatlet 

1-3  C. 

y2  tsps. 

2 

c. 

30  min. 

2hr. 

10. 

Wheatena 

1-3  C. 

%  tsps. 

2 

c. 

30  min. 

lhr. 

11. 

Wheat  germ 

1-3  C. 

%  tsps. 

2 

c. 

30  min. 

1  hr. 

12. 

Germed  a 

1-3  C. 

y2  tsps. 

11 

-2C. 

30  min. 

lhr. 

13. 

Bice  (steamed) 

1-3  C. 

1/2  tsps. 

11 

2C. 

lhr. 

14. 

Hominy,   fine, 

1-4  C. 

y2  tsps. 

1 

c. 

lhr. 

2hr. 

15. 

Wheat  grits 

1-3  C. 

y2  tsps. 

1 

c. 

y2 

2hr. 

16. 

Hominy,  coarse, 

1-3  C. 

1  tsps. 

2 

c. 

lhr. 

4hr. 

17. 

Oatmeal 

1-3  C. 

%  tsps. 

2 

c. 

% 

4hr. 

18. 

Samp 

1-3  C. 

1  tsps. 

3 

c. 

lhr. 

4hr. 

19. 

Corn  meal 

1-3  C. 

y2  tsps. 

3  1-2  C. 

lhr. 

3hr. 

LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  35 

CORN  MEAL  MUSH. 

1  C.  corn  meal  4  C.  boiling  water  It.  salt 

Allow  water  to  bubble,  stir  in  salt,  then  corn  meal  with  a   fork, 

keeping  water  boiling  all   the  time.     Let  cook  over  free  flame   1  hi*. 

Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  four  or  five  hours. 

CEREAL  WITH  FRUIT. 
:' i  cnp  wheatena  1  tsp.  salt 

:;  cups  boiling  water  i/2  lb.  dates,  stoned  and  cut  in 

pieces. 
Cook,  according  to  directions,  thirty  minutes,  add  the  dates,  and 
serve  with  cream.    Chopped  figs  can  be  used,  and  fruits  of  firm  texture. 

OATMEAL  MUSH  WITH  APPLES. 

Core  apples,  leaving  large  cavities;  pare  and  cook  until  soft  in 
syrup  made  of  boiling  sugar  and  water  together.  Fill  cavities  with 
oatmeal  mush;  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

BOILED  RICE. 
1  cup  rice  2  qts.  boiling  water  1  tsp.  salt 

Pick  over  rice,  and  wash  thoroughly;  add  slowly  to  boiling  salted 
water  so  as  not  to  check  boiling  of  water.  Boil  thirty  minutes,  or  until 
soft,  which  may  be  determined  by  testing  kernels.  Old  rice  absorbs 
more  moisture  than  new  rice,  and  takes  longer  for  cooking.  Drain  in 
coarse  strainer,  and  pour  over  one  quart  hot  water;  return  to  kettle, 
cover,  and  place  on  back  of  range,  to  dry  off,  when  kernels  are  distinct. 
When  stirring  rice  always  use  a  fork  to  avoid  breaking  kernels. 

RICE  WITH  PARSLEY  OR  CHIVES. 
y2  cup  rice  2  T.  butter  1  T.  chopped  parsley  or  chives 

Cook  rice  till  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Add  butter  and 
chive.    Mix  with  fork.    Serve  as  vegetable. 

TURKISH  RICE  OR  PILAU. 
1  cup  rice  3  cups  stock  and  strained  tomato 

Cook  rapidly  10  minutes.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  cook  till  rice 
is  tender. 

MACARONI. 
Macaroni,  spaghetti  and  vermicelli   are  forms  of  Italian  pastes 
made  from  the  glutinous  flour  of  hard  wheat. 

How  to  Know  Good  Macaroni. 
1.     Yellowish  in  color.  ■ 


36  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

2.  Rough  in  texture. 

3.  Breaks  clean  without  splitting. 

4.  Swells  in  boiling  to  double  its  bulk. 

5.  Does  not  become  pasty. 

6.  Does  not  lose  its  tubular  shape. 

Preparation 

Similar  to  cereal  preparation. 

1.  Cooked  in  large  quantity  of  boiling  water  20  to  40  minutes, 

2.  Drained. 

3.  Cold  water  poured  through  it  to  keep  tubes  from  sticking  to- 

gether. 

4.  Cut  in  rings  for  soup  or  in  short  sections  for  croquettes  or  to 

serve  in  a  sauce. 
Macaroni  is  bought  in  pound  packages;  14  of  a  pound  will  meas- 
ure about  1  quart  when  cooked. 

MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE. 
1  pint  boiled  macaroni  salt  and  pepper 

1  C.  thin  white  sauce  %  C.  chopped  cheese 

BUTTERED  CRUMBS. 

Put  macaroni  and  cheese  in  layers  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,, 
moisten  with  sauce,  coyer  with  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown.  Cheese 
may  be  omitted. 

1  oz.  or  14  CUP  equals  14  CUP  white  sauce. 

MACARONI  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Add  1  C.  oysters  highly  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  to  1  pint 
boiled  macaroni.  Moisten  with  1  C.  cream  or  white  sauce,  coyer  with 
crumbs  and  bake. 

Individual  cup:  y±  cup  macaroni,  14  cup  oysters. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO. 

1  t.  chopped  onion  iy2  C.  strained  tomato 

1  T.  butter  1/2  t.  salt 

1  T.  flour  1  pint  boiled  macaroni 

Fry  onion  in  butter  until  slightly  colored,  add  flour;  when  well 
mixed,  add  gradually  the  tomato  and  salt;  making  sauce.  Stir  in 
macaroni  and  re-heat  in  a  double  boiler  or  in  the  oven. 

Spaghetti  and  Vermicelli  may  be  cooked  in  any  way  in  which 
macaroni  is  cooked,  but  is  usually  served  with  tomato  sauce.  It  is 
cooked  in  long  strips  rather  than  in  broken  pieces.     To  accomplish 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  37 

this,  hold  quantity  to  be  cooked  in  the  hands  and  dip  ends  in  boiling 
water;  as  spaghetti  softens,  ii  will  bend  and  may  be  cooked  under  the 
water. 

1  ,  spaghetti  1-3  C.  tomato 

Rinse  mold  in  cold  water. 

MACARONI   MOLD. 

Cook  1  package  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  without  break- 
ing sticks.  When  tender,  wash  sticks  in  cold  water.  Butter  well  any 
mold  with  flat  surface  and  beginning  in  middle  of  the  bottom  coil 
macaroni  round  till  surface  is  covered.  Have  ready  2y2  C.  hot  creamed 
meat  or  fish  very  thick.  As  macaroni  rises  to  top  of  mold  put  meat  in- 
side to  keep  in  place.  Add  more  macaroni  until  dish  is  full.  Bake 
one-half  hour  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
with  white  sauce. 


EXPERIMENTS  IN  FERMENTATION 

Bread 

1.  Materials  Required: 

6  one-ounce  wide-mouthed  bottles. 

y2  cup  molasses 

1  pint  water,  yeast  cake 

2.  EXPERIMENT  No.  1 : 

1.  Fill  first  bottle  with  mixture  at  70°  F. 

2.  Fill  the  second  bottle  and  reduce  temperature  to  32°  F. 

3.  Fill  third  bottle  and  expose  mixture  to  boiling  temperature. 

Invert  all  on  saucers,  and  set  away  in  place  of  uniform  tern. 
RESULTS: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 

4.  Fill  bottle  with  mixture,  putting  cotton  in  top.     Reduce  tem- 

perature by  packing  bottle  in  ice  and  salt.     After  mixture 
thaws,  put  in  cork,  and  invert;  observe  action. 
RESULT : 

5.  Dissolve  1-8  yeast  cake  in  a  small  amount  of  water,  without 

any  sweetening,  cover  and  invert. 
RESULT : 

6.  Prove  gas  in  bottles  is  not  air  by  using  lime  water. 


FRENCH  BREAD  (Water  Bread) 
2  cups  tepid  water  G  cups  flour 

1  tsp.  salt  1  yeast  cake 

Put  two-thirds  of  the  sifted  flour  in  a  bowl;  add  the  water  in 
which  the  yeast  cake  and  salt  have  been  dissolved,  beating  the  mixture 
vigorously  ten  minutes,  until  it  is  smooth  and  spongy. 

Let  it  rise  until  full  of  bubbles;  cut  it  down  and  work  in  grad- 
ually iy2  cups  of  the  reserved  flour.  Knead  20  to  30  minutes,  until 
it  is  smooth  and  satiny,  and  ceases  to  stick  to  the  hands.  Place  the 
dough  in  a  rising  pan,  brush  over  lightly  with  water  or  melted  butter, 
and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Knead  again,  mold  into  loaves  and 
bake  45  to  60  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  39 

VIENNA  BREAD. 
l  cup  scalded  milk  5%  to  6  cups  flour 

1  cup  wilier  1    vcnsi  cake  dissolved 

1  isp.  sail  in  Vj  cup  Luke-warm  water 
Scald  the  milk,  add  the  salt   and  the  cold   water;  when  lukewarm 

add  the  dissolved  yeast  cake.  Tour  this  upon  two-thirds  of  the  Hour, 
and  beal  thoroughly  ten  minutes.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  until 
double  in  bulk.  Add  one-half  the  remaining  flour,  using  the  resl  to 
flour  the  board.  Knead  20  to  30  minutes;  allow  to  rise  a  second  time. 
Cut  down,  knead,  and  shape  into  loaves,  pointed  at  the  ends.  Bake  in 
long,  rounded  pans  45  minutes.  When  nearly  done  brush  over  with  white 
of  egg  or  a  little  thin  cooked  starch-paste  to  give  a  glaze. 

ENTIEE  WHEAT  BREAD  No.  1 

(Without  Kneading.) 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  tsp.  salt 

V4  cup  sugar,  or  1-3  cup  molasses  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  14  cup 

luke-w  arm  water 
Add  sweetening  and  salt  to  milk,  cool,  and  when  luke-wTarm  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  flour;  cover,  and  let  rise  to  double  its  bulk. 
Again  beat,  and  turn  into  greased  bread  pans,  having  pans  one-half 
full ;  let  rise  and  bake.  Entire  wdieat  bread  should  not  quite  double 
its  bulk  during  last  rising.  This  mixture  may  be  baked  in  gem  pans, 
making  24  muffins,  or  two  loaves  of  bread. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  BREAD,  No.  2 

(Kneaded  | 
1  cup  milk  scalded  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  14  CUP 

1  cup  water  water 

2  T.  sugar  414  to  5  cups  flour 
1  tsp.  salt 

Mix  according  to  directions  for  Entire  Wheat  Bread,  No.  1,  reserv- 
ing iy2  cups  flour;  beat  vigorously  ten  minutes,  then  work  in  gradually 
one-half  the  reserved  flour,  using  the  remainder  to  flour  the  board. 
Use  as  little  flour  on  the  board  as  possible.  Knead  the  dough  until  it 
is  elastic  and  ceases  to  stick  to  the  board,  20  to  30  minutes.  Place  in  a 
bread  pan,  brush  over  lightly  with  water  or  melted  butter,  cover  closely 
and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Knead  again,  then  mold  into  loaves, 
let  them  rise  until  nearly  twice  their  original  size,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  45  to  00  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  loaf. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 
2a/2  cups  water,  or  equal  parts  wrater  and  milk 
1-3  cup  molasses  3  cups  flour 

1/4  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  water  3  cups  Graham  flour 

iy2  tsp.  salt 


40  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Prepare  and  bake  as  entire  wheat  bread  No.  1  or  No.  2.  The  bran 
remaining  after  sifting  Graham  flour  should  be  discarded. 

RYE  BREAD. 

1  cup  scalded  milk  14  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  14  cup 

1  cup  boiling  water  luke-warm  water 

2  T.  butter  3  cups  flour 
1-3  cup  brown  sugar                                   Rye  meal 

To  milk  and  water  add  butter,  sugar  and  salt ;  when  lukewarm  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  flour;  beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise 
until  light.  Add  rye  meal  until  dough  is  stiff  enough  to  knead ;  knead 
thoroughly,  let  rise,  shape  in  loaves,  let  rise  again,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  45  minutes. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  y±  cup 

3  T.  butter  lukewarm  water 
2  T.  sugar                                                flour,  5%  to  6  cups 

1  tsp.  salt 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk ;  when  lukewarm  add  dissolved 
yeast  cake  and  3  cups  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise  until 
light ;  cut  down,  and  add  enough  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  again,  toss  on 
slightly  floured  board,  knead,  pat,  and  roll  out  to  1-3  inch  thickness. 
Shape  with  biscuit  cutter  first  clipped  in  flour.  Dip  handle  of  case- 
knife  in  flour  and  with  it  make  a  crease  through  middle  of  each  piece; 
brush  over  one-half  of  each  piece  with  melted  butter;  fold  and  press 
edges  together.  Place  in  greased  pan,  one  inch  apart;  let  rise  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 

SALAD  OR  DINNER  ROLLS. 

Use  same  ingredients  as  for  Parker  House  Rolls,  allowing  one- 
fourth  cup  butter.  Shape  in  small  biscuits,  place  in  rows  on  a  floured 
board  or  pan,  cover  with  cloth  and  pan,  and  let  rise  until  light  and  well 
puffed.  Flour  handle  of  wooden  spoon  and  make  a  crease  in  middle 
of  each  biscuit;  take  up  and  press  edges  together.  Place  closely  in 
buttered  pan,  cover,  let  rise,  and  bake  12  to  15  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

To  make  a  braid,  cut  the  rolled  dough  in  strips  one  inch  wide  by 
six  inches  long,  and  pinch  3  strips  together  at  the  end,  then  form  into 
a  braid ;  or,  roll  little  balls  of  dough  into  long  pieces  as  for  sticks,  and 
then  braid  them. 

To  make  crescents,  roll  the  dough  until  one-eighth  inch  thick;  cut 
into  pieces  five  inches  square  and  then  into  triangles.  Hold  the  apex 
of  triangle  in  right  hand,  roil  the  edges  next  the  left  hand  over  and 
over  toward  the  right,  stretch  the  point  and  bring  it  over  and  under 
the  roll ;  bend  the  ends  of  the  roll ;  bend  the  end  of  the  roll  round  like 
a  horseshoe. 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  41 

SWEDISH  BOLLS. 

Use  recipe  for  Salad  Bolls.  Boll  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness, 
spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  2  tbsp.  sugar  mixed  with  1-3  tsp. 
cinnamon,  1-3  c.  stoned  raisins,  finely  chopped  and  2T.  chopped  citron; 
roll  up  like  jelly-roll,  and  cut  into  :!  j  inch  pieces.  Place  pieces  in  pan 
close  together  Hat  side  down;  let  rise  and  bake.  When  rolls  are  taken 
from  oven,  brush  over  with  white  of  egg  slightly  beaten,  diluted  with 
1  r2  tsp.  water:  return  to  oven  to  dry  egg. 

BREAD  STICKS. 

I  cup  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  %  CUP 
]4  cup  butter  lukewarm  water 

II  2  T.  sugar  White  1  egg 

1  -2  tsp.  salt  3%  cups  flour 

Add  butter,  sugar,  salt  to  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add  dissolved 
yeast  cake,  white  of  egg  well  beateu  and  flour.  Knead,  let  rise,  shape; 
let  rise  again,  and  start  baking  in  a  hot  oven,  reducing  heat  that  sticks 
may  be  crisp  and  dry.  To  shape  sticks,  first  shape  as  small  biscuits; 
roll  on  board  where  there  is  no  flour)  with  hands  until  eight  inches  in 
length,  keping  of  uniform  size  and  rounded  ends,  which  may  be  done  by 
bringing  fingers  close  to,  but  not  over  ends  of  sticks. 

FRENCH  RUSKS. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  Flour 
14  cup  butter  1  egg 

V-k  CUP  sugar  yolk  2  eggs 

1  tsp.  salt  whites  2  eggs 

1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  14  cup  %  tsp.  vanilla 

lukewarm  water 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  scalded  milk;  when  lukewarm  add 
dissolved  yeast  cake  and  three  cups  flour ;  cover  and  let  rise ;  add  eggs 
and  egg  yolks  well  beaten  and  enough  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  again 
and  shape  as  Parker  House  Rolls ;  let  rise  again.  Before  baking,  make 
three  parallel  creases  on  top  of  each  roll.  When  nearly  done,  brush 
over  with  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  slightly  and  diluted  with  1  T.  cold 
water  and  vanilla.    Sprinkle  with  sugar. 

SHREDDED   WHEAT   BISCUIT   BROWX   BREAD 

2  cups  S.  W.  B.  crumbs  1  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  cup  sour  milk 

V-2  CUP  niolasses  1  tsp.  soda 

1%  cups  sweet  milk 

Have  the  water  boiling  before  beginning  the  bread.  Mix  the 
crumbs,  corn  meal  and  salt ;  add  the  molasses  in  which  has  been  mixed 
one-half  the  teaspoon  of  soda.     Then  add  1%  cups  milk,  and  last  the 


42  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

one-half  cup  sour  milk,  to  which  has  been  added  the  remaining  one-half 
teaspoon  of  soda,  stirring  until  it  effervesces.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
brown  bread  mold,  cover  tightly  and  steam  three  hours. 

OATMEAL  BKEAD. 

iy2  cups  oatmeal  1  T.  salt 

1  cup  hot  milk  \y2  cups  boiling  water 

-/4  CUP  molasses  14  cup  sugar 

1  T.  butter  y2  yeast  cake 

Flour  for  batter 

Pour  boiling  water  on  oatmeal. 

LUNCHEON  ROLLS. 

Sy2  cups  sifted  pastry  flour  14  CUP  butter 

y2  t.  salt  4  t.  baking  powder 

1  egg  beaten  light,  poured  into  cup,  the  cup  filled  up  with  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  work  in  butter  with  figer  tips,  add  milk  and 
egg,  toss  on  floured  board,  pat  out  14  inch  thick.  Cut  out  and  form  as 
for  Parker  House  Rolls.    Bake  10  minutes. 

IMPERIAL  STICKS. 
Cut  stale  bread  in  1-3  inch  slices,  remove  crusts,  spread  thinly 
with  butter.    Cut  slices  in  1-3  inch  strips.    Put  in  pan  and  bake  until 
browned. 

CANAPES. 

Cut  bread  in  1-8  inch  thickness.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes,  toast  and 
butter.  Cover  with  anchovy  paste,  eggs,  cheese,  meat,  etc.  Canapes  are 
served  cold  and  used  in  place  of  oysters  at  a  dinner  or  luncheon. 

AYATER  BISCUITS. 

2  cups  flour  %  t.  salt 

3  T.  butter  2  y2  t.  baking  powder 
%  cups  water 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  butter  with  a  knife.  Add  water. 
Toss  on  floured  board,  pat  out  one-half  inch  thick.  Shape  and  bake  15 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

CEREAL  MACAROONS. 
3  eggs  1  t.  salt 

2y2  cups  cereal  2  t.  vanilla 

%~cup  sugar  1  T.  melted  butter 

Beat  eggs  till  light;  add  cereal,  sugar,  and  other  ingredients.  Bake 
till  brown. 

Soak  oatmeal  two  hours  in  water  to  cover. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  43 

TEA  BISCUIT. 
2  cups  bread  flour  2  t.  cream  tartar 

1  t.  soda  i/2  t.  salt 

2  T.  butter  1  cup  milk  or  omit  butter  and 

use  1  cup  cream 


Gems 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 
2  cups  whole  wheat  or  graham  flour       1  egg  beaten  separately 
V2  tsp.  salt  1  cup  milk 

1  T.  sugar  1  cup  water 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  1  T.  melted  butter 

Mix  flour,  salt  and  sugar.  Add  the  milk  to  the  beaten  yolk,  thee 
the  water,  and  stir  this  into  the  dry  mixture.  Add  the  melted  butter, 
and  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Pour  into  buttered  gem-pans;  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  30  minutes. 

EGG  ROLLS. 

Rub  4  T.  butter  into  1  pint  flour,  add  2  tsp.  baking  powder,  y2  tsp. 
salt.  Beat  one  egg  until  light,  then  add  to  it  y2  cup  milk ;  add  this  to 
the  flour  and  mix  lightly.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  board ;  cut  into  oblong 
pieces  and  with  a  floured  knife  make  a  deep  crease  through  the  center 
of  each  roll.  Brush  over  the  top  with  white  of  egg,  and  sprinkle  over  it 
granulated  sugar.     Bake  16  minutes. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 

1  pint  flour  1  cup  milk  y2  tsp.  salt 

2  T.  butter  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Sift  powder  and  flour  together,  add  the  salt;  rub  the  butter  into 
the  flour,  add  the  milk  gradually  and  mix  to  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a 
floured  board;  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  in  rounds,  place  on 
floured  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes. 

POP-OVERS. 

1  cup  flour  1  egg  y±  tsp.  salt 

7-8  cup  milk  y2  tsp.  melted  butter 

Mix  salt  and  flour;  add  milk  gradually,  in  order  to  obtain  a  smooth 
batter.  Add  egg  beaten  until  light,  and  butter ;  beat  two  minutes,  using 
a  Dover  egg  beater;  turn  into  hissing  hot  iron  gem-pans,  and  bake  30 
to  35  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  They  may  be  baked  in  buttered  earthern 
cups,  when  the  bottom  will  have  a  glazed  appearance. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

y2  cup  entire  wheat  flour  3  T.  sugar 


44  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

1  cup  flour  1  egg 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  y±  cup  milk 

i/2  tsp.  salt  1  T.  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  pour  slowly 
on  first  mixture ;  beat  thoroughly  and  add  butter.  Cook  on  a  hot  grid- 
dle.    Serve  with  butter  and  maple  syrup. 

WAFFLES. 

1%  cups  flour  1  cup  milk 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  yolk  2  eggs 

y2  tsp.  salt  whites  2  eggs 

1  T.  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Thin  the  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk, 
then  stir  into  the  flour;  add  the  melted  butter,  beat  thoroughly,  and 
lastly  cut  and  foud  in  the  beaten  whites.  Cook  in  a  buttered  hot 
waffle  -iron.     Serve  with  maple  syrup  or  honey  or  powdered  sugar. 

OATMEAL  MUFFIN. 

1  cup  cooked  oatmeal  i/2  tsp.  salt 
1%  CUPS  flour                                             i/o  cup  milk 

2  T.  sugar  1  egg 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  1  T.  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  together;  add  one-half  the  milk,  egg 
well  beaten,  the  remainder  of  the  milk  mixed  with  oatmeal,  and  beat 
thoroughly;  then  add  butter.    Bake  in  hot  buttered  gem-pans. 

GOLDEN  COKN  CAKE. 

1  C.  flour  1  egg 

1  C.  corn  meal  1  C.  milk 
%  C.  sugar  14  t.  salt 

4  t.  baking  powder 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk  and  egg  well  beaten.  Bake 
20  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

COKN  MEAL  PUFFS 

2  cups  fine  white  corn  meal  %  tsp  salt 

1  tsp.  butter  2  or  3  T.  milk 

1  tsp.  sugar  2  eggs 

Scald  milk  with  boiling  water,  so  that  meal  is  all  wet;  but  not 
sift ;  then  add  ingredients  in  order  given  except  eggs.  When  the  batter 
is  cold,  add  the  eggs,  yolk  and  whites  beaten  separately.  The  batter 
should  drop  easily  from  the  spoon,  not  thin  enough  to  pour.  Have 
pans  greased  and  hissing  hot  and  a  hot  oven.  Bake  until  brown  and 
puffy. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  45 

CREAM  MUFFINS. 

1  cii|)  cream  j  £  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  1  T.  melted  butter 

ty2  cups  flour  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Beat  the  yolk  of  the  eggs.  Add  them  to  the  cream,  then  add  this 
gradually  to  the  Hour.  Add  salt  and  melted  butter,  then  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  troth  and  lastly  the  baking  powder.  Pour  mix- 
ture into  buttered  muffin-pans;  bake  25  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

BICE  MUFFINS. 

Separate  two  eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  add  to  them  1  cup  milk,  1  cup 
boiled  rice,  1  T.  melted  butter,  y2  tsp.  salt.  Add  to  this  iy2  cups  flour. 
Beat  well.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  lastly  2  tsp.  baking 
powder.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes. 

TWIN  MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS. 
Vl  cup  butter  %  cup  milk 

•/4  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

1  egg  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  and  egg  well  beaten.  Sift  baking 
powder  with  flour,  and  add  to  the  first  mixture,  alternating  with  milk. 
Bake  in  buttered  tin  gempans  25  minutes. 

BYE  MUFFINS. 

1  cup  rye  flour  *4  cup  molasses 

1  cup  white  flour  1  t.  soda 

i/2  t.  salt  1  T.  lard,  melted 

li/4  cups  sour  milk  1  egg 

Directions:  Mix  and  sift  all  dry  ingredients  except  soda.  Mix 
milk  and  molasses,  add  soda.  Beat  egg  well.  Add  little  of  flour  at  a 
time  to  effervesing  milk.     Beat  well.    Add  egg  last. 

BYE  MUFFINS. 

1  cup  rye  flour  y2  t.  salt 

1  cup  white  flour  1^4  cup  sweet  milk 

2  t.  baking  powder  1  egg 
!/4  cup  sugar 


Methods  of  Cooking 

The  principal  ways  of  cooking  are  boiling,  broiling-,  stewing,  roast- 
ing, baking,  frying,  sauteing  and  braising. 

Boiling  is  cooking  in  boiling  water.  Solid  food  so  cooked  is  called 
boiled  food,  e.  g.,  boiled  potatoes.  Water  boils  at  212°  Fahrenheit, 
sea  level  and  simmers  at  185°  Fahrenheit.  The  boiling  point  is  the 
temperature  at  which  water  will  boil.  Slowly  boiling  water  has  the 
same  temperature  as  rapidly  boiling  water.  A  point  of  economy, 
which  may  be  deducted  from  this  statement  is  as  follows:  If  using  a 
coal  range,  move  the  mixture  further  back  on  the  stove  as  soon  as  it 
has  begun  to  boil,  or  reduce  the  heat;  if  using  a  gas  range,  reduce  the 
heat  as  soon  as  mixture  begins  to  boil  by  simply  lowering  the  gas  flame. 

Water  is  boiled  for  two  purposes:  first,  to  destroy  organic  impur- 
ities; second,  for  cooking  foods. 

Boiling  water  toughens  and  hardens  albumen,  toughens  fibrin,  dis- 
solves some  tisues  in  meat,  bursts  starch  grains,  and  softens  cellulose 
in  cereals  and  vegetables. 

Milk  should  never  be  allowed  to  boil,  for  at  boiling  temperature  the 
casein  is  hardened  ami  the  milk  made  more  difficult  of  digestion.  .Milk 
heated  over  boiling  water  is  called  scalded  and  reaches  a  temperature 
of  190°  Fahrenheit. 

in  cooking  meat  for  pot  roast,  corned  beef,  or  the  like,  always 
thrust  it  into  boiling  water. 

When  foods  are  cooked  over  boiling  water  the  process  is  called 
steaming. 

Staring  is  cooking  in  a  small  amount  of  water  for  a  long  time  at 
a  low  temperature.  It  is  the  most  economical  method  of  cooking  meats, 
as  all  the  nutriment  is  retained  and  is  the  ordinary  way  of  cooking 
the  cheaper  cuts. 


DEEP  FAT  FRYING 

Deep  fat  frying  is  cooking  by  immersion  in  deep  fat  raised  to  the 
temperature  of  from  400°  to  450°  Fahrenheit. 
Various  fats  used : 

(1)  Olive  oil — best  but  is  too  expensive. 

(2)  Mixture  of  beef  drippings  and  lard — next  best. 

(3)  Cottolene. 

Be  sure  that  the  fat  is  hot  enough ;  otherwise  the  food  absorbs  the 
fat. 

Nearly  all  foods  not  containing  eggs  are  dipped  first  in  crumbs, 
then  in  beaten  egg  and  crumbs,  before  frying.    The  intense  heat  of  the 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  17 

fat  hardens  the  albumen  i  i.  e.  the  white)  of  the  egg,  so  forming  a  coat- 
tug  which  makes  the  food  impervious  to  fat.  Never  put  the  cold  food 
directly  into  hot  fat.  It  decreases  the  temperature  of  the  fat  so  i; 
will  soak  into  the  food. 

Croquettes  are  almost  always  made  of  eooked  mixtures. 

Crumbs: 

(1)  Shredded  wheat   crumbs  rolled  fine — best   for  croquettes, 
etc.,  and  make  a  very  nice  brown. 

(2)  Dried  bread  passed  through  a  meat  chopper — next  best. 
\:\  i     Cracker  crumbs — last. 

A  point  of  economy  in  making  croquettes:  Instead  of  dipping 
the  croquettes  in  crumbs  the  lirst  time;  dip  them  in  Hour  if  von  have 
only  a  few  crumbs;  then  dip  them  finally  in  egg  and  crumbs  as  usual. 
This  will  use  much  fewer  crumbs  and  less  egg-  than  the  usual  way. 
However,  crumbs  preferably  if  you  have  enough. 

(ireat  care  must  be  taken  not  to  put  too  much  food  in  the  fat  at 
one  time,  as  it  causes  the  fat  to  bubble  over  the  sides  of  the  kettle,  and 
that  causes  fire. 

It  is  always  best  to  have  a  pail  of  salt  or  sand  (the  latter  is  best  i 
handy  near  the  stove  to  pour  on  the  fat  if  it  burns. 

It  is  not  the  fat  that  boils  over,  but  water  which  the  fat  has  re- 
ceived from  the  food. 

All  tried  food  should  be  dried  on  brown  paper. 

To  test  the  proper  heat:  When  the  fat  begins  to  smoke,  drop  in  a 
one  inch  cube  of  soft  bread.  If  in  one  minute  it  conies  out  a  golden 
brown,  the  fat  is  of  the  right  temperature — 300°  F. 

Fat  can  be  used  over  and  over  for  meats;  but  we  generally  use 
fresh  or  clarified  fat  for  dough  and  batter  mixtures,  potatoes  and  fish- 
balls. 

To  Clarify  Fat: 

First  melt  the  fat  in  a  saucepan  over  a  slow  heat.  For  2  quarts 
melted  fat,  add  a  little  raw  potato  pared  and  cut  in  small  pieces*  Tut 
tat  in  oven  (not  too  hot)  cover  it  and  let  is  slay  until  clear.  The  po- 
tato will  be  covered  with  a  brown  sediment  ;  it  collects  the  impurities 
in  the  fat. 

Trying  Out: 

Note:  The  white  fat,  or  suet,  becomes  all  melted  and  cooked  in; 
remove  the  scum  which  forms  on  top  in  the  trying  out  process. 

Trying  out  means  to  cut  off  the  suet,  or  white  fat,  from  beef  or 
pork  fat;  put  it  in  a  double  boiler  top  and  slowly  cook  it  out,  leaving 
the  tissues  behind.  This  is  the  method  used  for  leaf  lard.  The  fat  that 
is  tried  out  is  absolutely  pure,  and  is  fine  for  frying  and  sauteing,  and 
also  for  shortening  purposes.  (Three  minutes — long  enough  time  to 
cook  croquettes.  A  specially  devised  frying  kettle  has  an  upright  stand 
ard  of  metal  with  a  hook  on  a  top,  on  which  to  hang  frying  basket.) 


Poultry 


How  to  Tell  a  Young  Chick: 

Should  have  a  flexible  breast  bone,  flexible  legs,  soft  skin,  short 
silky  hairs,  small  scales,  little  fat,  no  spur. 

Fattened  young  poultry  from  9  months  to  a  year  old  are  best  for 
paper  bag  roasting. 

Broilers  from  three  to  five  months  old. 

TO  CLEAN  AND  DRAW  POULTRY. 

1.  Remove  pin  feathers. 

2.  Singe  off  the  hairs  over  an  alcohol  flame  or  use  paper,  being  careful 
not  to  smoke  the  fowl. 

3.  Cut  off  the  head,  and  cut  skin  at  back  of  neck  and  remove  windpipe 

and  crop. 

4.  Cut  off  neck  close  to  the  body,  leaving  the  skin  so  that  it  will  fold 
back  after  breast  has  been  stuffed. 

5.  Cut  a  small  opening  under  the  rump,  and  run  the  lingers  round 
close  to  the  body  to  loosen  the  entrails.  Carefully  draw  them  out 
in  one  solid  mass.  Remove  the  lungs  and  the  kidneys  that  are 
close  to  the  backbone. 

6.  Cut  the  skin  round  the  leg-joint,  being  careful  not  to  cut  the  ten- 
dons. Use  a  skewer  and  remove  tendons  one  at  a. time.  Then  re- 
move the  feet. 

7.  Cut  the  oil  sack  from  the  tail. 

8.  Wash  thoroughly  with  a  cloth,  scraping  the  skin  with  a  dull  knife. 
Wash  inside  by  holding  the  fowl  under  the  faucet;  dry  with  a  cloth. 

9.  Cut  the  gall  from  the  liver.  Cut  the  outer  coat  of  the  gizzard  and 
draw  carefully  away  to  remove  the  inner  sack.  Open  the  heart 
and  wash.  The  heart,  liver,  and  gizzard  are  called  the  giblets. 
All  poultry  and  birds  are  dressed  in  the  same  way. 

TO  STUFF  and  TRUSS  A  FOWL. 

Place  stuffing  in  the  opening  at  the  neck  where  the  crop  had  been, 
and  put  the  rest  in  the  body,  and  sew  up  the  opening.  Draw  the  skin 
of  the  neck  smoothly  down  and  under  the  back.  Press  the  wings  close 
against  the  body,  and  fold  the  pinions  under,  crossing  the  back;  tie  or 
skewer  in  place ;  press  the  legs  close  to  the  body,  fasten  with  a  skewer, 
doubling  a  cord  across  the  back  and  around  the  ends  of  skewers. 

Chicken  to  roast,  stuff  one-half  full. 


I  MORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  49 

TO  BONE  A  FOWL. 
Wash  and  singe  a  fowl;  take  off  the  head  and  legs  and  remove  'lie 
tendons  as  directed  for  drawing.  When  a  fowl  is  to  be  boned,  it  is  not 
drawn.  The  skin  must  not  be  broken.  Use  a  small,  pointed  knife;  cut 
and  skin  down  the  full  length  of  the  back  to  the  bone;  then  beginning  at 
the  Deck  carefully  scrape  the  meat  away  from  the  bone.  When  the 
joints  of  the  wings  and  legs  are  met,  break  them  back,  and  proceed  lo 
free  the  meat  from  the  carcass.  When  one  side  is  free,  turn  the  fowl 
and  do  the  same  on  the  other  side.  Care  must  be  taken  to  detach  the 
skin  from  the  breast  bone  without  piercing  the  skin.  When  the  meat 
is  free  from  the  carcass  remove  the  bones  from  the  legs  and  wings, 
turning  the  meat  down  or  inside  out  as  the  boue  is  exposed,  being  care- 
ful not  to  break  the  skin  at  the  joints.  The  whole  end  joint  of  the 
wings  may  be  cut  off. 

ROASTED  BOXED  CHICKEN. 

Spread  the  boned  chicken  on  a  board,  the  skin  side  down,  turn  the 
flesh  of  the  legs  and  wings  right  side  out,  and  stuff  them  with  force- 
meat into  shape.  Equalize  the  meat  as  wTell  as  possible,  placing  the  lit- 
tle strips  of  white  meat  over  the  dark  meat ;  dredge  wTith  salt  and  pep- 
per. Make  a  roll  of  the  forcemeat,  and  lay  it  in  the  chicken.  Draw  the 
skin  up  and  sewT  it  together  securely.  Turn  it  over,  place  the  wings  and 
legs  into  the  position  of  a  trussed  fowl,  press  the  body  into  natural 
shape  and  tie  it  securely.  Cover  with  slices  of  salt  pork.  Place  in  a 
hot  oven,  allowing  20  minutes  to  the  pound.  Baste  frequently.  Re- 
move the  pork  the  last  15  minutes,  dredge  with  flour,  and  let  the  chick- 
en brown.  Serve  with  a  giblet  or  tomato  sauce,  or  serve  cold  as  a  lun- 
cheon dish. 

FORCEMEAT  FOR  STUFFING  BONED  FOWLS. 

Use  the  meat  of  another  fowl,  or  veal,  or  a  mixture  of  both.  Chop 
them  fine,  then  add  one  cup  bread,  cracker  or  shredded  wheat  crumbs, 
and  if  convenient  a  little  chopped  ham  or  tongue,  and  a  few  lardoons  of 
salt  pork.  Season  with  the  following  articles,  and  moisten  the  wiiole 
with  stock : 

1  T.  chopped  parsley  %  tsp.  pepper  1  tsp.  onion  juice 

1  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  thyme 

If  veal  is  used,  take  it  from  the  knuckles  and  use  the  bone  in  the 
braising-pot,  as  it  will  give  a  good  jelly.  In  stuffing  boned  chicken, 
stuff  body,  legs  and  wings,  being  careful  not  to  use  too  much  stuffing, 
as  allowance  must  be  made  for  the  swelling  of  the  crumbs. 


CHICKEN  DRESSING. 
1%  pints  stale  bread  crumbs  and  1-3  Cup  boiling  water,  to  moisten,  to 
1  cup  crumbs. 


50  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

y2  cup  cracker  crumbs  1  egg 

1  t.  salt  1-3  t.  pepper 

y2  t.  marjoram  1-3  t.  sage 

%  t.  thyme  1  T.  butter 

1  t.  oniou  chopped  fine 

Mix  all  and  moisten  with  white  stock  made  from  chicken's  feet. 

BBAISED  BONED  CHICKEN 
To  braise  the  chicken  prepared  as  above,  roll  it  lightly  in  a  piece 
of  cheese  cloth,  tying  the  ends  well.  Put  in  a  sauce  pan  the  bones  of  the 
chicken,  a  slice  of  carrot,  an  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  3 
cloves,  12  pepper  corns  and  celery.  Add  enough  water  to  cover  the  bed 
of  vegetables  and  the  bones ;  lay  in  the  chicken,  cover  and  simmer  four 
hours. 

JELLIED  BONED  CHICKEN. 

Aspic  Jelly 
1  qt.  stock,  veal  or  chicken  14  ^SP-  pepper 

V2  pkg-  Knox's  gelatine  2  bay  leaves 

whites  and  shells  2  eggs  1  slice  onion 

1  T.  lemon-juice  1  slice  carrot 

1  T.  vinegar  1  sprig  parsley 

1  tsp.  salt 

Add  bay  leaves,  parsley,  onion  and  carrot  to  the  stock  and  simmer 
15  minutes.  Then  add  salt,  pepper,  vinegar  and  lemon-juice.  Add 
gelatine,  which  has  been  soaked  in  one-fourth  cup  cold  water.  Stir  till 
dissolved.  Cool  the  jelly,  and  when  cold,  add  the  whites  and  shells 
lightly  beaten  together;  return  to  the  fire  and  beat  rapidly  until  it 
boils  then  boil  3  minutes  without  beating;  set  it  aside  for  a  few  min- 
utes, then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag  that  has  been  scalded.  Strain 
a  second  time  if  not  perfectly  clear.  Let  the  jelly  drain  without 
pressure. 

To  ornament  the  mold,  lay  the  design  carefully  in  place  in  the 
bottom  of  the  mold.  With  a  spoon  add  only  enough  jelly  to  moisten 
them;  if  too  much  is  used  the  pieces  will  float  out  of  place.  Let  the 
jelly  harden  to  fix  the  decoration  then  add  as  much  as  will  make  a 
layer  one-half  inch  thick.  Let  it  harden,  then  place  a  braised  boned 
chicken  in  the  centre.  Add  a  little  jelly  to  fix  it  in  place,  then  fill  up 
the  mold  having  the  chicken  well  covered.  Do  not  move  the  mold  while 
filling;  place  it  on  ice  while  filling  to  make  the  jelly  harden  more 
quickly. 

CHICKEN  FKICASSEE. 
Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  a  fowl  into  eleven  pieces ;  two  drumsticks, 
two  second  joints,  two  wings,  two  breasts,  three  back  pieces. 


LABORATORY  COOK  HOOK.  51 

Put  the  pieces  in  a  sauce  pan  with  lour  tablespoons  butter :  let 
them  brown  slightly  on  both  sides,  but  use  care  thai  they  do  not  burn. 
When  a  little  colored,  add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  a  bou- 
quet of  herbs,  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer  until  tender.  Make  a  sauce  of 
two  tablespoons  butter  and  four  of  Hour;  add  to  it  slowly  one  cup 
liquid  in  which  chicken  was  cooked;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  re- 
move from  the  tire,  and  when  slightly  cooled  add  a  cup  of  cream  or 
milk,  beaten  with  two  or  three  yolks  of  eggs.  Place  on  the  tire  until  it 
thickens,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Arrange  pieces  of  toast  on  a  hot  dish  ; 
place  the  chicken  on  the  toast  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it.  A  border  of 
rice  may  be  placed  around  the  chicken.  A  brown  sauce  may  be  used, 
or  mushrooms  added  to  white  sauce. 

BKOILED  GAME. 

Quail,  squab,  partridge  and  spring  chicken  are  broiled  in  the  same 
maimer.  Split  them  down  the  back  and  place  on  the  broiler  with  the 
inside  toward  the  fire.  Broil  slowly.  Quail  require  about  8  minutes, 
squab  12  to  15  minutes,  partridge  25  minutes.  Serve  with  drawn  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt. 

LABGE  GAME. 

Ducks  are  finest  roasted.    They  are  served  cooked  rare. 

Venison  is  prepared  and  cooked  the  same  as  mutton.  It  should  be 
cooked  underdone,  allowing  ten  minutes  to  the  pound.  Serve  with 
currant  jelly  and  salad. 


TUBKEYS. 

Demonstration  on  Opening  a  Turlcejj,  Roasting  a  Tiwlceg  and  Making 

Giblet  Sauce. 

"A  good  demonstrator  should  have  a  well  trained  assistant;  the 
assistant  must  anticipate  what  the  demonstrator  wants,  just  as  the 
nurse  anticipates  the  surgeon's  needs." 

Turkeys  are  in  season  from  September  to  May,  but  are  obtainable 
all  the  year  around.  In  season  they  are  about  25c  a  pound,  excepting 
of  course  at  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  time,  when  the  prices  are 
high  because  of  the  great  demand.  When  high  they  are  about  38c; 
they  range  from  18c  to  38c  a  pound  in  price. 

If  your  family  is  good  sized,  it  is  economy  to  buy  a  large  turkey, 
because  the  frame  in  a  small  turkey  weighs  as  much  as  that  of  a  large 
turkey.  The  waste,  too,  is  very  heavy.  The  turkey  used  in  class 
weighed  11  pounds.  After  having  been  cleaned  out  it  weighed  9% 
pounds.    This,  however,  was  an  unusually  small  shrinkage,  iy2  pounds. 

Best  turkeys  have  clean,  plump  skin,  full  breast,  very  few  pin- 
feathers;  also  have  black  legs,  and  the  cartilages  are  tender. 


52  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

To  singe  (i.  e.  to  remove  the  little  hairs.)  Place  newspapers  di- 
rectly over  coal  fire  and  hold  turkey  directly  over  blaze.  Have  all 
drafts  open  so  that  the  "char"  will  pass  up  chimney. 

To  Open  Turkey:  Eemove  feet  and  legs  by  cutting  with  a  knife 
just  below  the  knee  joint.  When  cut,  put  the  knee  against  a  board, 
pushing  and  spreading  it  so  as  to  loosen  it.  Remove  the  tendons  with 
a  skewer  because  they  are  very  tough.  There  are  ten  of  these  tendons  in 
each  leg. 

Gristle  is  the  same  thing  as  cartilage. 

Eemove  pin  feathers ;  it  is  well  to  get  a  bird  with  as  few  pin  feath- 
ers as  possible. 

Place  a  piece  of  brown  wrapping  paper  on  cutting  board  before 
cleaning  the  turkey.    All  the  bits  of  refuse  that  do  not  go  in  the  gar- 
bage can  be  rolled  up  in  this  paper;  in  this  way  a  great  deal  of  extra 
cleaning  up  of  table,  board,  etc.,  will  be  saved. 
Cut  off  the  head  and  discard. 

Eemove  the  skin  about  knee  joint  and  clean  off  refuse. 
Wash  legs  thoroughly  and  put  to  soak  in  boiling  water  for  15  min- 
utes.   Then  remove  the  skin. 

Use  the  bones  of  legs,  the  tips  of  wings,  and  the  neck  together  to 
make  a  white  soup  stock.  About  one  quart  of  stock  can  be  obtained  in 
this  way  from  a  whole  turkey.    Most  people  throw  these  parts  away. 

Make  quite  a  large  incision  at  the  lower  end  with  a  knife,  cutting 
right  down  through  the  tail.  (Sometimes  another  incision  is  made  in 
the  breast,  but  it  makes  an  unsightly  gash,  so  this  is  not  a  good  method 
to  use.)  Insert  hand  in  incision  to  loosen  and  remove  all  the  organs 
as  whole  as  possible,  and  all  at  once. 

Take  great  care  not  to  break  the  gall  bladder  which  lies  near  the 
left  lobe  of  the  liver  of  the  turkey.  It  is  of  a  yellowish  or  greenish 
color  and  is  very  bitter;  (green  in  a  fresh  turkey  and  yellow  in  a  cold 
storage  turkey.) 

The  lungs  are  close  to  the  back  near  the  neck.  They  are  very 
bright  red  if  fresh.    These  are  to  be  discarded. 

The  heart  is  pear-shaped  and  lies  above  the  lungs.  Save  this.  The 
gizzard  is  the  round,  dark  substance  in  the  middle  of  the  turkey,  im- 
bedded in  fat  and  containing  gravel  stones.  It  lies  below  the  lungs. 
This  is  to  be  saved  also. 

The  liver  lies  near  the  stomach  or  gizzard,  but  just  behind  it.  Cut 
gizzard  open  lengthwise  to  get  out  the  gravel  stones ;  open  it  out  wide, 
wash  out  and  remove  the  inner  lining.  The  liver  as  well  as  the  gizzard 
is  good  to  use. 

Save  the  heart,  gizzard  and  liver;  they  must  be  washed  of  all 
clotted  blood.  These  are  called  the  giblets.  Put  on  stove  in  cold  water 
to  cover  and  allow  to  cook.  Let  boil  to  extract  the  juice;  cook  until 
soft.    This  will  take  about  as  long  as  the  turkey  does  to  roast. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  53 

The  kidneys  are  in  the  two  hollows  a1  the  lower  part  of  the  back- 
hone  near  the  tail.    These  are  to  be  discarded. 

The  oil-sacs  in  the  end  of  the  tail  contain  a  bitter  and  poisonous 
substance  formic  acid,  just  remove  and  discard  them. 

The  intestines  which  are  coiled  round  and  round  and  imbedded  in 
iat  are  discarded.     Save  the  fat  and  try  it  out. 

Now  take  the  bird  over  to  the  sink  and  allow  water  from  the  cold 
water  faucet  to  run  over  and  through  it  thoroughly.  Never  allow 
meats  of  any  kind  to  soak  in  water.  Never  wash  turkey  before  it  is 
singed;  otherwise  it  will  cause  the  pin  feathers  to  lie  fiat  and  make 
them  almost  impossible  to  remove. 

Always  look  inside  the  bird  to  see  that  no  parts  remain.  Wipe 
bird  thoroughly  and  weigh.  Time  of  cooking  is  gauged  by  weight  of 
bird  after  entrails  are  removed. 

A  short  piece  of  inside  of  neck  should  be  cut  out,  so  that  the  skin 
of  neck  may  be  doubled  over  and  fastened  down  with  a  meat  skewer. 

Insert  turkey  dressing  in  the  incision  at  the  lower  end  of  turkey. 
Never  fill  turkey  full  of  dressing  because  it  expands  in  cooking. 

Sew  turkey  together  at  incision,  using  a  sort  of  crosswise  stitch. 
A  curved  needle  especially  for  this  purpose  is  the  best  for  sewing  a 
turkey,  but  an  ordinary  needle  will  answer  the  purpose.  Use  No.  40 
white  cotton  thread  doubled. 

Pin  legs  to  the  body  with  a  skewer  on  each  side ;  also  skewer  each 
wing  into  position  next  to  the  body. 

To  truss  the  turkey  means  to  tie  it  up  into  shape ;  if  this  were  not 
done  the  turkey  in  cooking  would  become  very  "sprawling"  in  appear- 
ance.   Use  common  twine. 

The  string  should  be  arranged  so  as  to  hold  the  tail  and  legs  to- 
gether. Wind  it  once  around  the  skewer  which  holds  the  legs  next  to 
the  body ;  then  pass  it  along  to  the  skewer  which  holds  the  wing  on  the 
same  side  of  the  body  in  place;  wind  it  around  that  once;  then  carry 
string  over  the  body  to  the  wing  on  other  side  of  bady,  and  wind  the 
string  once  around  the  skewer  there ;  pass  the  string  back  again  under- 
neath body  to  the  first  wTing  again  and  fasten  at  skewer;  then  back 
again  to  second  wing,  winding  about  skewer  once;  then  down  side  of 
body  to  second  leg,  where  wind  about  skewer  and  tie  ends  together 
above  tail. 


Fish 


Fish  is  similar  in  composition  to  meat;  in  general  contains  more 
water  and  less  fat. 

HOW  TO  KNOW  A  FRESH  FISH. 

1.  Gills  a  bright  red. 

2.  Flesh  along  backbone  firm  and  elastic. 

3.  Eyes  bulging  and  bright. 

4.  No  unpleasant  odor. 

Best  Methods  of  Cooking. 
Broiling  and  baking  are  the  best  methods,  and  are  practically  the 
same  with  the  gas  range.  Sections  of  fish  dipped  in  melted  butter  or 
salt  pork  fat,  sprinkled  with  fine  crumbs  and  broiled  under  gas  have 
much  the  appearance  and  flavor  of  fried  fish  with  none  of  the  unpleas- 
ant odor  of  frying. 

Preparation  of  Fish 
To  remove  scales  scrape  with  a  knife  from  the  tail  slowly  toward 
the  head,  occasionally  rinsing  knife  in  water.       The  inner  organs  of 
small  fish  may  be  pressed  out  through  on  opening  near  the  gills.    Large 
fish  are  cut  half-way  down  and  scraped  clean. 

Skinning 

To  skin  fish,  cut  through  the  whole  length  of  the  skin  close  to  the 
fin  on  the  back  and  remove  that.  Then  cut  the  skin  on  the  other  side, 
loosen  it  around  the  head  and  pull  toward  the  tail.  When  a  fish  is  not 
fresh  it  is  difficult  to  separate  skin  from  flesh. 


BAKED  STUFFED  FISH. 
Wipe  fish  with  damp  cloth.  Remove  fins  and  scales.  Keep  head 
on.  Fill  cavity  with  stuffing  three-fourths  full,  allowing  for  swelling. 
Sew  the  slit  over  and  over  with  strong  thread.  Skewer  and  tie  fish  in 
figure  "S."  Place  it  upright  in  pan,  surround  with  one-quarter  inch 
water;  bake  from  45  to  60  minutes.    Baste. 

STUFFING  FOR  FISH. 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  1  T.  melted  butter 
y2  t.  salt                                              y8  t.  pepper 

2  T.  parsley  cut  fine  2  T.  chopped  capers 
14  cup  hot  water  to  moisten 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  55 

DRAWN   BUTTER  SAUCE 

3  T.  butter  1/2  t.   salt 

:>  T.  Hour  y8  t.  pepper 

IV2  cnp  boiling-  water  2  T.  butter 

Melt  3  T.  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour,  cook  three  minutes.    Add 
water  slowly.    Season  and  then  add  2  T.  butter,  just  before  serving. 


OYSTERS. 
BROILED  OYSTERS. 
Dry  the  oysters.  Heat  the  broiler  well  and  oil  it  by  rubbing- 
it  with  a  slice  of  pork  or  suet.  Dip  the  oysters  into  melted  butter 
or  into  oil,  and  lay  them  on  the  broiler.  Broil  them  on  both  sides  over 
bright  coals.  Serve  on  toast  cut  in  uniform  shapes,  and  pour  over  them 
a  little  melted  Matire  d'Hotel  Sauce. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 
Wash  the  oysters  and  drain  between  towels.  Roll  in  crumbs,  then 
in  egg  mixed  with  a  tablespoon  of  milk,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt; 
then  again  in  cracker  crumbs.  Place  in  a  frying  basket  and  cook  in 
smoking  hot  fat  until  a  light  brown.  Drain  and  serve  immediately. 
Pickles,  chow-chow,  horse-radish  or  lemon,  with  parsley  as  a  garnish, 
are  served  with  fried  oysters. 

OYSTER  FILLING  FOR  PATTIES. 
For  one  dozen  oysters 
2  tbl.  butter  1  cup  milk  or  cream      dash  of  cayenne 

2  tbl.  flour  yolks  2  eggs  dash  of  mace 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  liquor ;  drain  and  cut  each  one  into  four 
pieces.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  cream,  add  the  sea- 
soning, and  remove  from  the  fire.  When  a  little  cooled,  add  the  beaten 
yolk,  stirring  vigorously;  place  again  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  thick- 
ened ;  then  add  the  pieces  of  oysters.  Serve  in  hot  pattie-shells  or  bread 
croustades. 

TO  OPEN  LOBSTERS. 
Separate  tail  from  the  body.  Twist  off  large  and  small  claws.  With 
scissors  or  knife  cut  the  thin  shell  on  under  part  of  tail,  and  remove 
the  meat  whole.  Separate  this  meat  in  the  center,  and  remove  intes- 
tinal vein,  which  runs  its  entire  length.  Hold  the  body  shell  firmly  in 
left  hand,  and  draw  out  the  body  with  the  other.  Discard  stomach, 
liver  and  lungs.  Save  the  coral.  Break  the  body  ones,  picking  out  meat 
that  lies  between  them,  which  is  some  of  the  sweetest  and  tenderest  to 
be  found.  Separate  large  claws  and  cut  or  break  them  to  remove  meat 
whole.  Small  claws  and  lower  part  of  large  claws  are  reserved  for 
garnishing  and  the  shell  of  body  and  tail  washed  and  dried  used  for 
serving  of  lobster  after  it  has  been  prepared. 


56  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

LOBSTER  FAEOI. 

2  cups  boiled  lobster  meat  1  t.  salt 

1  cup  milk  or  cream  1  T.  chopped  parsley 
4  T.  butter  14  tsp.  nutmeg 

2  T.  flour  dash  cayenne  pepper  or  paprika 
4  T.  bread  crumbs                               yolks,  3  hard-cooked  eggs 

Put  into  a  sauce  pan  2  T.  butter;  when  it  bubbles  add  1he  flour; 
cook,  but  not  brown;  add  one  cup  milk  slowly  and  stir  till  smooth. 
Eemove  from  the  fire,  add  salt,  pepper,  parsley  and  yolks  mashed  fine, 
and  Lastly  the  lobster  meat  cut  into  pieces  one-half  inch  square.  (Use 
a  silver  knife  to  cut  lobster.)  Have  the  shell  from  which  the  meat  was 
taken  carefully  washed  and  dried. 

Cut  out  neatly  the  inside  shell  of  the  tail  piece  and  fit  the  two 
parts  of  shell  together.  As  the  shell  contracts  in  cooking,  it  is  well  to 
trim  off  a  little  from  the  sides  of  the  body-shell  in  order  to  leave  an 
opening  wide  enough  to  admit  a  spoon  in  serving.  Put  the  meat  mix- 
ture into  the  shell.  Cover  the  top  with  crumbs,  which  have  been 
moistened  with  2  T.  of  butter.  Place  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to 
brown.  If  the  meat  of  two  lobsters  is  used,  the  shells  of  both  may  be 
used,  or  the  two  tail  shells  may  be  fitted  into  one  body  shell,  which  will 
hold  all  the  meat. 

LOBSTER  CUTLETS. 
2  C.  chopped  meat  1-16  t.   cayenne  1  t.  parsley 

V2  t.  salt  1  t.  lemon  juice  1   C.   white  sauce 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  cool.  Shape  in  form  of  cut- 
lets, fry  in  deep  fat,  drain  on  brown  paper.  Insert  in  each  cutlet  the 
tip  end  of  a  small  claw. 

PLANKED  HALIBUT. 

1  slice  halibut  2  T.  butter  %  t.  salt 

y8  t.  pepper  y2  T.  lemon  juice 

Cut  fish  into  fillets,  broil  in  oven  or  on  plank.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  and  lemon  juice.  Place  on  plank,  garnish  with 
French  potato  balls  or  duchess  potato  put  through  pastry  bag.  Make 
potato  in  shape  of  fish.  Use  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley  for  decora- 
tion.    Brown  potato  in  oven. 

FISH  BALLS. 
y2  lb.  salt  fish  !y4  t.  white  pepper 

4  shredded  wheat  biscuits  1  egg 

1  pint  hot  milk  2   S.   W.   B.   for  crumbing    (rolled 

1  T.  butter  and  sifted) 

Boll  and  sift  S.  W.  B.  Freshen  the  fish  and  pick  fine  with  fork. 
Add  crumbs  and  pepper,  mixed  well.       Add  melted  butter  and  hot 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  57 

milk,  stirring  well.  Let  stand  5  minutes.  Shape  into  small  balls. 
Chill  thoroughly.  Roll  in  egg  beaten  light,  then  in  crumbs.  Pry  in 
deep  fat. 

TARTAR  SAUCE. 

1  t.  lemon  juice  1  T.  Worcestershire  Sauce 
%  t.  salt                                                        1  T.  vinegar 

Heat  over  hot  water. 

CRAB  FLAKES  EN  COQUILLE. 

2  C.  crab  meat  2  T.  butter  2  T.  flour 

y2  C.  stock  *4  C.  milk  1  T.  onion  sauce 

1  egg  yolk  1/4  t.  salt  1-1G  t.  pepper 

f.  g.  paprika  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  butter,  add  onion  juice,  flour,  stock  and  lemon  juice.  Cook 
five  minutes,  add  cream  in  which  egg  yolk  has  been  beaten,  add  crabs. 
Place  in  shells,  cover  with  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

OYSTERS  IN  BROWN  SAUCE. 

1  pt.  oysters  1  C.  oyster  liquor  1  slice  onion 

2  slices  carrot  y2  t.  salt  y2  C.  milk 

1  T.  butter  5  T.  flour  1-16  t.  cayenne 

Scald  oysters  in  liquor  and  drain.  Saute  onion  and  carrot  in  but- 
ter, add  flour,  and  seasonings,  cook  until  brown,  add  oyster  liquor, 
strain  over  oysters,  serve  on  points  of  toast. 

STUFFED  FILLET  OF  HALIBUT. 
Cut  halibut  into  1%  inch  strips.     Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Roll  and  insert  toothpick  to  hold  firm.     Crumb,  egg  and  crumb,  then 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

CURRIED  SHRIMPS. 

iy2  T.  butter  1  can  shrimps 

%  t.  curry  powder  1V2  C.  stewed  and  strained  toma- 

iy2  T.  flour  toes 

2  T.  chopped  onion  browned  in     y2  t.  salt 

butter  i/8  t.  pepper 

1-16  t.  paprika 

Melt  butter,  brown  onion,  add  flour  and  curry  powder,  tomato 
slowly.  When  thickened,  add  shrimps  cut  in  small  pieces.  Season, 
serve  in  timbals. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 
2  C.  oysters  2  T.  butter  1  T.  lemon  juice 

2  T.  flour  2  eggs  y2  C.  cream  or  milk 

1  C.  chopped  celery 


58  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Melt  butter,  add  oysters,  cook  one  minute.  Eemove  oysters,  make 
sauce  of  other  ingredients,  adding  eggs  and  oysters  last.  Serve  in 
timbale  cases. 

CEEAMED  SHRIMPS. 
2  C.  shrimps  cut  in  small  pieces  2  T.  butter 

!/4  C.  milk  or  cream  %  C.  chicken  stock  1  egg 

!/4  t.  salt  1-16  t.  pepper  1  T.  grated  onion 

2  T.  flour  1  t.  lemon  juice 

Melt  butter,  add  onion  flour;  cook  three  minutes.  Add  stock, 
lemon  juice.  Cook  three  minutes.  Season;  add  milk,  beaten  egg  and 
shrimps. 

CREAMED  CODFISH. 
Freshen  codfish  and  cook  20  minutes.    Make  a  white  sauce,  using 
1  cup  milk,  1  cup  stock,  3  T.  butter,  4  T.  flour,  y±  t.  salt,  y8  t.  pepper. 
Add  codfish  (shredded)  to  sauce. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 

8  raw  oysters  2  drops  Tabasco 

1  T.  catsup  1  t.  chopped  celery 

Y2  T.  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  x/2  t.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1-16  t.  salt 

Mix  ingredients,  chill  thoroughly,  serve  in  cocktail  glasses. 

OYSTER  CREAMS. 

%  pint  liquid  aspic  jelly  1  jar  cream  1  pint  oysters 

red  peppers  olives 

Line  mould  with  aspic  jelly,  let  it  harden.  Place  cream  around 
sides  of  mould.  Cook  oysters  in  own  liquor  till  soft,  drain  and  cool. 
Stir  in  Mayonnaise  to  moisten,  fill  mould  to  top  with  aspic  jelly.  Let 
get  cold  and  firm.    Turn  out  and  garnish  with  red  peppers  and  olives. 

PRESSED  SALMON  LOAF. 

2  eggs  1  can  salmon  14  t.  salt 

2  C.  fine  bread  crumbs       2  T.  butter  1-16  t.  paprika 

Rub  salmon  through  a  sieve,  mix  all  ingredients  together,  turn 
into  mould,  cover  and  steam  one  hour. 

DEVILED  SALMON. 

1  can  salmon  2  C.  milk  3  T.  butter 

3  t.  flour  y8  t.  pepper  1-16  t.  paprika 

2  t.  Worcestershire  sauce  %  t.  salt 

Pick  the  salmon  free  from  bones.  Make  white  sauce  of  milk,  but- 
ter and  flour.  Add  seasonings  and  salmon.  Serve  hot  in  timbale  cases 
or  individual  dishs. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  59 

SALMON  BOX. 
Lino  a  broad  pan  slightly  buttered  with  warm  steamed  rice.  Fill 
centre  with  1  can  salmon.  Season  with  y>  t.  salt,  y8  t.  pepper  and 
moisten  slightly  with  white  sauce.  Cover  with  rice  and  cook  in  oven 
in  pan  of  water  one  hour.  Turn  out  on  platter.  Serve  with  white 
sauce  and  parsley. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS  ON  TOAST. 
1  pt.  oysters  iy2  C.  white  sauce  %  t.  celery  salt 

Serve  on  toast. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 
%  C.  milk  or  3  T.  butter  %  t.  salt 

%  C.  stock  3  T.  flour  %  t.  pepper 

SALMON  LOAF. 
1  C.  salmon  y2  C.  crumbs  or  maple  flake  (rolled) 

1  egg  14  C.  wdiite  sauce  y2  t.  salt 
%  *•  pepper                         1  t.  lemon  juice                 1  T.  ketsup 

One-half  cup  sausage  meat  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  white  sauce 
and  ketchup.  Pour  off  all  liquids  of  salmon,  remove  bones  and  mince 
fine.  Add  crumbs,  white  sauce  seasoning,  and  egg.  Work  together, 
make  in  loaf  in  small  tin  and  bake  one  hour.  Serve  hot  or  cold,  with 
white  sauce  or  tomato  sauce. 

BOILED  FISH. 

Remove  scales  which  have  not  been  taken  from  the  fish.  Wipe 
thoroughly  inside  and  out  with  cloth  wet  with  cold  water.  The  head 
and  tail  of  the  fish  may  or  may  not  be  removed,  according  to  the  size 
of  the  fish  and  the  manner  of  cooking.  Tie  the  fish  in  a  piece  of  cheese- 
cloth and  place  it  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover,  to  which  are  add- 
ed salt  and  lemon-juice  or  vinegar.  If  the  skin  is  not  removed  before 
serving,  scald  the  dark  skin  and  scrape  it  to  remove  the  coloring.  This 
can  easily  be  done  by  holding  the  fish  on  two  forks,  and  lowering  into 
boiling  water  the  dark  side ;  then  remove,  and  scrape. 

The  time  required  for  cooking  varies  from* 20  to  45  min.,  depending 
upon  the  shape  and  size  of  the  fish.  Fish  is  cooked  when  the  flesh 
leaves  the  bone.  Serve  on  a  platter  garnished  with  parsley  and  lemon. 
Serve  with  a  Hollandaise  sauce. 

HOLLANDAISE   SAUCE. 

y2  cup  butter.  %  tsp.  salt. 

2  yolks  of  eggs.  1-3  cup  boiling  wrater. 
1  T.  lemon-juice.                                  Few  grains  cayenne. 

Put  butter  in  a  bowl,  cover  with  cold  water  and  wash,  using  a 
spoon.    Divide  butter  in  three  pieces;  put  one  in  sauce-pan  wTith  yolks 


m  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

of  eggs  and  lemon-juice;  place  sauce-pan  in  a  larger  one  containing 
boiling  water,  and  stir  constantly  until  butter  is  melted,  then  add  sec- 
ond piece  of  butter,  and  as  it  thickens  third  piece.  Add  water,  cook 
one  minute,  remove  from  fire,  then  add  salt  and  cayenne. 

BAKED  FISH. 

1  medium-sized  haddock,  1  tsp.  chopped  parsley. 

bluefish  or  shad.  1  tsp.  chopped  pickles. 

1  cup  cracker  or  bread-  1  tsp.  capers. 

crumbs.  1  ssp.  pepper. 

%  cup  melted  butter.  1  ssp.  salt. 

1  tsp.  chopped  onion. 

Eemove  eyes  of  fish.  Clean  the  fish,  and  wipe  thoroughly  inside 
and  out  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Make  a  stuffing  of  the 
above  ingredients.  Put  the  stuffing  in  the  cavity  and  sew  up  the  open- 
ing. Use  larding  needle  to  sew  fish.  Kub  the  fish  thoroughly  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter  on  both  sides.  Cut  small  gashes  across  the  sides 
of  the  fish  about  two  inches  apart,  and  in  these  put  tiny  strips  of  fat 
salt  pork.  Skewer  the  fish  in  the  shape  of  a  letter  S,  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Put  on  cheese-cloth  in  baking-pan,  with  extra  pieces  of  pork. 
Allow  15  min.  to  a  pound,  and  baste  frequently  with  the  melted  pork, 
or  salted  H20. 

Serve  with  a  garniture  of  parsley  and  slices  of  lemon  or  hard- 
cooked  egg. 

SARDINES.        (FRENCH    FASHION). 

Remove  the  skin  and  tails  from  about  a  dozen  sardines,  and  heat 
them  in  the  oven.  Heat  some  butter  or  oil  in  the  blazer  of  one  chafing- 
dish,  and  in  it  saute  some  bits  of  bread  of  suitable  shape  to  serve  under 
the  sardines.  Put  in  the  blazer  of  another  chafing-dish  over  hot  water 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  tsp.  each  of  tarragon  vinegar,  cider 
vinegar,  and  made  mustard,  %  tsp.  salt  and  1  tsp.  butter.  Stir  the 
.sauce  until  it  is  quite  thick,  then  serve  the  sardines  on  the  bread  with 
the  sauce  poured  over  them.      Olives  are  agreeable  with  this  dish. 


The  Lobster 


lives  on  the  bottom  of  the  sea — under  rocks.  Its  means  of  defense  are 
claws  and  ret  real.  It  will  sacrifice  its  life  if  necessary,  lor  reproduc- 
tion. Its  organism  is  modified  to  meet  the  conditions  of  reproduc- 
tion and  defense.  The  fishermen  are  the  greatest  enemies  of  lobsters. 
The  lobster  is  like  a  big  insect.  In  all  Crustacea  the  head  and  thorax 
are  fused  into  one  body. 

The  lobster  sheds  all  its  shell  once  in  a  while.  Then  we  have  soft- 
shelled  Crustacea.  The  critical  period  in  the  life  of  any  Crustacea 
is  in  this  shedding  stage,  when  it  tempts  other  animals  to  eat  it.  The 
new  shell  forms  very  rapidly — in  2  or  3  weeks.  The  little  brown  spots 
on  back  underneath  the  shell  are  the  glands  for  secreting  the  shell. 
When  the  lobster  sheds  its  shell  it  also  sheds  the  lining  of  its  stomach. 

The  lobsters  are  kept  in  the  hatchery  till  about  an  inch  long  and 
then  are  thrown  out  to  shirk  for  themselves.  The  shell  is  product  of 
the  skin. 

The  parts  of  the  lobster's  body  are : 

head, 
thorax, 
abdomen  and 
swimineretts, 
to  which  the  eggs  are  attached.       The  young  cling  to  the  same  swirn- 
meretts  till  they  shed  their  outside  skeleton  several  times,  which,  when 
young,  is  every  few  days.       The  period  increases  as  they  grow  older. 
Nearly  all  eggs  are  fertilized  and  hatched.     They  are  excellent  food 
for  young  species,  hence  young  lobster  are  often  destroyed. 

On  the  dorsal  side  we  find  the  following  organs : 
Ovaries  Dorsal  artery 

Heart  Main  artery  and  branches 

Stomach  Intestine 

Reproductive  organs  Muscles 

The  ovaries  are  sometimes  yellowT  and  sometimes  dark.  There  is 
a  tube  extending  from  them  to  the  third  leg  back,  through  which  the 
eggs  pass  and  are  deposited  on  the  leg. 

The  lobster  has  a  digestive  system,  a  nervous  and  an  excretory 
system. 

The  stomach  of  Crustacea  is  in  the  head.  The  lobster's  stomach 
contains  three  little  knob-like  teeth,  of  a  calcareous  composition,  used 
to  grind  the  food.  The  jawxs  are  on  the  lower  side  of  the  head  near 
thorax.  The  food  passes  through  the  mouth  upward  to  the  stomach. 
The  mouth  is  a  modified  leg.     The  heart  lies  below  stomach  in  the 


62  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

thorax.  It  is  an  elongated  organ  with  main  blood  vessel  extending 
posteriorly  and  one  anteriorly  with  several  branches  toward  head,  and 
one  from  each  side  of  heart. 

The  heart  has  three  pairs  of  openings.  In  expanding  it  draws 
blood  in,  and  in  contracting  sends  blood  into  arteries.  No  veins  enter 
the  heart.  One  artery  extends  from  heart  to  feed  the  eyes.  Two 
tubes  from  heart  feed  the  stomach;  2  more  to  month  and  antennae. 
The  dorsal  abdominal  artery  goes  toward  back,  has  two  little  branches 
to  each  segment.  Branch  running  down  to  central  part  and  forward, 
called  ventral  artery. 

The  lobster  has  colorless  blood.  The  white,  soft  substance  seen  in 
cooked  lobster  is  coagulated  blood.  The  sinuses  are  tissue  like  cavities 
for  holding  blood.  They  extend  all  through  the  body.  The  blood 
vessel  extending  down  the  back  has  a  branch  to  each  section  in  the  ab- 
domen. Each  of  the  gills  has  a  blood  vessel  which  extends  up  and 
joins  large  sinus  near  the  heart;  this  makes  circulation  through  the 
heart  and  supplies  oxygen. 

Lying  under  the  main  dorsal  artery  is  the  intestine,  extending 
from  stomach  whole  length  of  body.      It  is  colorless. 

The  gills,  or  breathing  apparatus  are  the  hairy-like  bodies  on  either 
side  of  the  thorax.  They  take  in  water  on  anterior  part  towards  head 
by  means  of  "spoon-paddle"  like  apparatus,  which  fans  the  water  back 
and  forth  through  the  gills. 

The  lobster  will  live  for  some  time  out  of  water  if  the  gills  be  wet 
occasionally.  They  suffocate  if  not  allowed  to  move  paddle  to  get 
air,  or  starve  if  allowed  a  long  time  in  which  to  die. 

There  is  a  greenish  gland  located  below  the  eyes  in  anterior  por- 
tion of  head  which  carries  waste  product. 

The  ovaries  are  long,  slender,  dark  green  bodies,  extending  from 
the  head  down  the  back  into  the  abdomen,  occupying  a  large  space  in 
the  body.  They  are  filled  with  eggs.  The  ovaduct,  one  on  each  side, 
extend  into  a  leg  on  each  side,  from  which  the  eggs  are  deposited  on  to 
the  swimmeretts.  The  swimmeretts  show  a  partial  development  from 
the  leg. 

The  nervous  system  consists  of  the  ganglia  located  on  the  ventral 
side  instead  of  the  back.  It  has  no  cerebro-spinal  system — the  shell  act- 
ing as  the  spinal  column.  It  has  a  large  ganglion  on  or  near  upper  part 
of  thorax,  and  with  branches  continues  to  the  top  of  the  head,  where 
it  has  a  small  cluster  of  ganglia.  There  are  nodules  and  branches  of 
nerves  extending  from  the  main  line  to  each  segment  of  the  abdomen. 
The  principal  nerve  cord  extends  whole  length  of  body  to  brain  located 
in  top  of  head. 

The  dorsal  muscles  on  back,  whose  function  is  to  straighten  abdo- 
men.   When  the  lobster  moves  rapidly  it  swims  backward  by  contrac- 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  63 

lion  of  lower  part  of  abdomen  and  fan-like  tail.  It  never  goes  forward 
except  by  crawling. 

All  legs  developed  from  swimmeretts.  Each  leg  operated  by  2 
muscles.    Large  claws  are  for  defense. 

Tlu1  antennae  are  nsed  for  feeling  and  smelling. 

The  lobster  lives  mostly  on  animal  life  or  anything  he  can  get 
hold  of.      He  is  the  scavenger  of  the  ocean. 


LOBSTERS. 

(Demonstration  in  cooking  live  lobsters,  opening  boiled  lobsters 
and  the  making  of  lobster  cutlets  and  lobster  salad). 

The  largest  and  best  lobsters  are  found  in  Atlantic  waters,  the 
very  best  being  those  found  between  Maine  and  New  Jersey. 

Lobsters  are  in  season  from  April  to  September,  but  can  be  ob- 
tained throughout  the  year.  In  season,  they  are  never  lower  than 
17c  a  pound;  wrhile,  in  the  winter,  they  sometimes  go  as  high  as  35c 
a  pound. 

The  average  weight  is  1  pound,  and  the  average  length  10  to  15 
inches.  It  is  economy  to  get  a  large  lobster,  because  there  is  less 
waste  of  shell  in  proportion  to  size. 

When  taken  from  the  sea,  the  lobster's  shell  is  green;  though 
sometimes  it  is  red,  if  the  lobster  is  taken  from  a  sandy  bottom.  When 
cooked,  the  shell  turns  red. 

The  lobster  always  consists  of : 

(1) — a  body.  (3) — 2  large  claws. 

(2) — a  tail.  (1) — 1  pairs  small  claws. 

On  the  lower  side  of  the  body  in  front  of  large  claws  are  various 
small  organs  which  surround  the  mouth. 

Under  the  tail  are  several  pair  of  appendages. 

The  stomach  of  the  lobster  is  poisonous. 

In  preparing  a  lobster,  wTe  discard  the  stomach  and  the  intestinal 
tract. 

The  coral  is  found  only  in  the  female  lobsters.  They  are  the  ova- 
ries. These  are  often  dried  and  used  for  a  garnish.  They  lie  along 
the  back  of  lobster. 

To  distinguish  the  male  from  the  female:  The  feelers  are  soft  in 
the  female,  and  hard  in  the  male.  The  feelers  are  small — resembling- 
small  spikes. 


TO  BOIL  A  LIVE  LOBSTER. 

Have  plenty  of  water  in  a  kettle  boiling  briskly.  A  trivet  should  b< 

placed  in  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.    For  about  5  quarts  water  add  2  T. 

salt.    Pick  up  lobster  by  back  of  body.    Immerse  lobster  in  kettle,  put 

on  cover  and  boil  18  to  20  minutes,  according  to  size.     If  the  lobster 


64  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

is  fresh  and  good,  the  tail  should  be  doubled  under  and  the  claws 
cramped  up  in  front  when  lobster  is  cooked. 

TO  SELECT  A  BOILED  LOBSTER. 
Take  up  in  the  hand  and  if  heavy  in  proportion  to  size,  the  lob- 
ster is  fresh.  Straighten  the  tail,  and  if  it  springs  rapidly  into  place, 
the  lobster  was  alive  when  put  into  pot  to  boil.  Dark,  black-streaked, 
hard  shells  are  full  of  meat;  thin  shells  contain  watery  meat,  and 
there  is  great  waste. 

TO  OPEN  A  LOBSTER, 

Remove  claws,  large  and  small ;  separate  tail  from  body — just 
break  off.  Tail-meat  may  be  drawn  out  with  a  silver  fork.  Always  use 
silver  or  wooden  utensils.  It  is  usually  necessary  to  cut  parts  of  the 
shell  in  the  tail  to  remove  the  meat. 

Separate  tail-meat  through  the  center,  and  remove  small  intestinal 
vein  which  runs  the  entire  length.  If  one  tries  not  to  break  this  in 
removing  tail-meat  from  shell,  it  will  be  easier  to  remove.  This  must 
be  wholly  taken  out  and  discarded. 

Hold  body-shell  firmly  in  left  hand,  and  with  first  two  fingers  and 
thumb  of  right  hand  draw  out  the  body,  and  leave  the  stomach  in  the 
shell.    The  stomach  is  in  the  upper  part  of  body  near  the  head. 

The  body-shell  is  usually  to  be  broken  in  two;  break  the  meat 
with  the  fingers'  so  as  to  find  the  bones  easily. 

After  breaking  body  through  the  center,  separate  the  body  bones, 
picking  out  the  meat  between  because  it  is  the  sweetest. 

Separate  large  claws  at  joints.  If  the  shell  is  thin,  cut  it  open 
with  scissors;  if  hard,  break  it  with  a  hammer  or  mallet. 

Remove  all  the  lobster  meat  whole  if  possible. 

Small  claws  may  be  used  as  a  garnish,  or  else  cut  lengthwise  with 
scissors  or  a  sharp  knife,  and  meat  removed.  The  feelers  in  a  female 
lobster  should  be  softer  than  in  the  male. 

The  shell  of  the  lobster  may  be  washed  and  dried  and  used  to  hold 
lobster  farcie,  or  for  garnishing  lobster  salad. 

The  coral,  which  lies  along  the  back  of  the  lobster,  is  pink;  it  may 
be  dried  in  oven  or  on  top  of  stove  and  used  as  a  garnish.  It  is  not  pois- 
onous, for  nothing  poisonous  is  ever  used  as  a  garnish. 

Don't  break  meat  of  tail.  If  tail-shell  cannot  be  broken,  pick  meat 
away  from  shell  with  a  knife,  keeping  as  whole  as  possible.  If  it 
does  not  come  out  readily,  cut  right  up  through  the  middle  lengthwise 
of  the  shell,  taking  great  care  not  to  break  intestinal  vein.  Be  sure  to 
remove  intestinal  vein.  It  is  almost  always  darker  in  the  male  than 
in  the  female. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  65 

The  strongesl    part   of   the  lobster  is  in  the  front  claws  and  the 
muscles  of  the  back. 

Be  sure  to  get  all  the  meat  out  of  the  small  claws,  because  it  is 
sweetest.      There  are  4  pairs  small  claws. 

Live  lobsters  are  the  best  and  the  cheapest  to  buy.  Male  lobsters 
are  the  besl  to  buy  in  the  spring  time,  because  that  is  spawning  time, 
and  the  females  are  softer. 

Never  keep  lobster-meat  more  than  24  hours  after  it  has  been 
cooked.  Put  in  a* covered  dish  (not  tin)  in  the  refrigerator;  if  it  is 
not  carefully  covered,  the  other  food  in  the  ice-chest  will  taste  of  fish. 

Keep  the  firmer  pieces  of  lobster  for  salad,  using  the  more  broken 
ones  for  lobster  cutlets. 

If  one  understands  how  beautifully  and  wonderfully  the  creature  is 
made,  the  opening  of  a  lobster  or  chicken  loses  all  its  repulsiveness. 


Lesson  on  Olive  Oil 

Olive  oil  is  not  like  the  juice  of  the  grape,  which  requires  a  chemi- 
cal process  to  transform  the  sugar  it  contains  into  alcohol,  in  order 
that  it  may  become  wine ;  the  oil  is  there  ready  made  within  the  fruit, 
and  the  utmost  that  can  be  done  is  to  extract  it,  just  as  it  is  bursting 
the  cells  within  which  it  is  enclosed,  by  crushing  the  olives  and  then 
pressing  them.      Olive  oil  is  found,  not  made. 

A  mortar  and  pestle  will  crush  olives,  and  the  oil  and  water  may 
be  strained  out  through  cloth  or  crash  by  hand.  The  difference  is  not 
of  process  but  of  quantity  to  be  dealt  with. 

The  oil  of  the  pulp  is  rich  and  of  a  delicious  flavor;  that  of  the 
stone  is  dark  and  cloudy;  that  of  the  seed  contains  essential  oil,  while 
the  little  cells  of  the  skin  contain  oil  in  small  quantities.  The  pro- 
portion of  oil  to  the  seed  runs  from  10  to  20%  in  weight. 

The  first  process  of  the  oil  mill  is  the  crushing  of  the  olives.  The 
crushing  machine  generally  used  consists  of  a  circular  tub  or  trough 
of  stone  or  bricks,  covered  with  cement,  having  a  stone  floor,  on  which 
revolves  a  heavy  stone  wheel,  or  an  axle,  one  end  of  which  is  attached  to 
and  works  on  a  pin  or  pivot  set  in  the  centre  of  the  trough.  This 
mill-wheel  crushes  and  grinds  as  it  rolls  over  the  rolls,  while  olives 
are  constantly  pushed  by  a  scraper  into  its  path.  This  may  be  worked 
by  hand,  by  horses,  by  oxen,  by  steam  or  water  power.  The  stone 
should  be  non-porous  lest  it  absorb  oil,  which  may  become  rancid. 

During  the  process  of  crushing,  pressing,  depositing  and  clarify- 
ing, too  extreme  cold  chills  the  oil  and  checks  its  flow.  In  cold  weather 
it  is  desirable  to  have  moderate  artificial  heat  in  the  mill.  When  clari- 
fied the  oil  should  be  put  in  a  cool  place  and  in  cool  receivers,  like  tanks 
of  tiles,  bricked,  lined  with  marble  or  glass.  The  Italian  terra-cotta 
lined  tanks  are  the  best.  The  Italians  use  wooden  tanks  lined  with 
tin  and  also  brick  tanks  lined  with  a  fine  cement.  Wood  is  not  desir- 
able ;  the  oil  which  soaks  into  it  is  liable  to  turn  rancid.  Wood  alone 
lacks  the  coolness  required. 

Sufficient  pure  water  and  extreme  cleanliness  are  the  essentials  of  oil 
production  for  table  use.  All  the  different  parts  of  the  machine  must 
be  kept  clean  by  constant  washing  with  hot  water  and  soda.  Smoke 
from  fires  must  be  prevented  and  smoking  must  be  forbidden  in  the 
mill  because  oil  absorbs  odors  and  flavors  readily. 

To  keep  oil  in  good  condition  needs  great  care  and  attention.  The 
clear  oil  ought  to  be  separated  from  the  turbid  at  once,  for  the  longer 
the  oil  remains  on  the  lees  the  more  apt  it  is  to  contract  a  rancid  or 
bad  odor.  When  the  oil  has  been  decanted  or  turned  off  several  times, 
as  the  needs  may  be,  filtered  through  dry  moss,  carded  cotton,  sand, 


LABORATORY  cook  BOOK.  67 

plaster,  charcoal,  etc.,  it  must  be  stored  in  a  place  which  is  sheltered 
both  in  summer  from  the  heal  and  in  winter  from  the  cold. 

If  the  earth  is  very  rich  and  the  growth  of  the  trees  is  exceedingly 
rank  or  strong,  this  forced  vegetation  will  produce  fruit  that  will  im- 
part a  peculiar  taste  to  the  oil,  and  in  a  short  time  it  will  become 
so  rancid  that  its  market  value  will  be  greatly  depreciated.  When 
a  very  dry  season  occurs  with  frequent  and  intensely  hot  winds,  the 
growth  is  checked,  the  stem  of  the  fruit  is  dried  and  berries  get  hard, 
dry  and  shriveled.  In  this  case  the  oil  acquires  a  peculiar  woody 
flavor. 

The  oil  will  most  readily  absorb  any  odor  to  which  it  may  be  ex- 
posed, and  when  this  is  derived  from  tobacco  smoke,  onions,  etc.,  it 
lowers  its  value.  A  smoky  chimney  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  room 
where  the  oil  is  being  made  or  any  lack  of  cleanliness  will  injure  the 
oil  greatly.  Many  things  contribute  to  the  rancidity  in  olive  oil,  such 
as  excessive  heat,  contact  with  the  air,  contact  with  metals  that  can 
be  dissolved  by  the  natural  acids  of  the  oil. 

We  hear  about  virgin  oil,  but  such  a  thing  can  not  be  found  by 
the  ordinary  consumer.  It  requires  so  much  care  and  attention  to 
prepare  this  oil  that  it  is  only  to  be  found  in  the  house  of  a  farmer 
who  has  a  mill  and  prepares  this  oil  for  his  own  use.  Olives  are  taken 
when  only  three-quarters  ripe.  These  are  selected  free  from  any 
blemish.  They  are  taken  immediately  to  the  mill,  where  they  are  but 
slightly  crushed.  The  seed  must  not  be  touched,  because  it  is  rather 
acid  and  has  not  as  fine  taste  as  the  oil  from  the  pulp.  The  oil  so 
prepared  is  greenish  in  color,  its  perfume  is  exquisite  and  it  can  be 
kept  for  many  years. 

The  best  oil  is  obtained  from  olives  not  fully  ripe,  for  too  ripe 
fruit  gives  oil  which  is  heavy  and  without  perfume. 

Fraud  is  found  in  the  oil  mills.  Should  the  olives  be  moldy, 
which  often  happens  when  they  have  been  gathered  or  kept  in  bad 
condition,  the  bad  taste  is  hidden  by  adding  leaves  of  wild  olive  trees 
to  the  pulp. 

The  best  way  to  obtain  a  lighter  color  in  very  dark  oil  is  to  mix 
it  with  oil  which  is  nearly  white. 

Olive  oil  contains  potash,  soda,  lime,  magnesia,  oxide  of  iron,  sul- 
phuric acid,  carbonic  acid  and  a  small  quantity  of  HC1. 

Olive  oil  is  a  natural  antiseptic  of  the  stomach,  because  of  the 
HC1  it  contains.  It  is  a  very  good  nourisher;  easily  absorbed,  it  ranks 
next  to  cream.  It  gives  an  abundance  of  heat,  and  is  a  good  food  for 
all  seasons,  if  not  taken  in  excess  in  summer.  It  is  better  to  use 
French  dressing  with  meat  salads — salads  that  have  proteid  in  them. 
Mayonnaise  is  used  for  vegetables  and  fruits. 

REFERENCES. 

Olive  Culture  in  the  Alpes  Maritimes. 

Report  from  Consul  Bradley  of  Nice.      The  Olive — Marvin. 


Vegetables 


1 — General  Group 

1.  Green — lettuce,  cabbage,  carrots,  etc. 

2.  Starchy — potato. 

3.  Nitrogenous  (partly)  peas,  beans,  lentils. 

2.     Application  of  heat. 

1.  Aim. 

a.  Softening  of  fibre. 

b.  Thorough  cooking  of  starch. 

c.  Avoidance  of  over-cookery  of  albumenoid  matter. 

d.  Development  of  flavor. 

2.  Processes. 

a.  Boiling. 

b.  Baking. 

c.  Steaming. 

d.  Frying. 

I.  General  directions  for  cooking  vegetables: 

1.  Choose  vegetables  in  season  when  each  is  at  its  best. 

2.  Know  what  each  is  worth  when  plentiful. 

3.  Choose  those  of  medium  size. 

4.  Clean  thoroughly.     Utensil — a  small  vegetable    brush,    a     sharp 
pointed  knife. 

5.  Freshen  wilted  vegetables  by  soaking  in  cold  water  3  minutes, 
roll  in  cloth  and  place  near  ice. 

6.  Keep  winter  vegetables  in  a  cool,  dark,  dry  place. 

7.  The  water  in  which  strong-flavored  vegetables  are  cooked  should 
be  changed  at  least  once. 

8.  Cook  sugary  vegetables  in  a  little  water  that  all  the  juice  may  be 
retained.      Steaming  and  baking  is  often  better  than  boiling. 

9.  Dried  vegetables  must  be  soaked  to  restore  water  lost  by  evapora- 
tion. 

10.  Canned  vegetables  should  be  turned  from  the  can  as  soon  as 
opened  and  the  contents  well  aerated. 

II.  Color  is  retained  by  cooling  in  a  covered  kettle. 

12.  A  little  vinegar  boiling  in  saucepan  upon  the  stove  will  absorb 
the  odor  of  boiling  vegetables. 

13.  Boots  and  tubers  should  be  placed  in  boiling  water.  Delicate  green 
vegetables  should  be  salted  just  as  they  are  removed  from  boiling 
water. 

J  4.     Cook  all  vegetables  covered,  except  onions,  cabbage,  kale. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK. 


69 


Artichokes 

French 


Preparation 

Trim  the  points 
Wash  in  cold 
water  and  vin- 
egar 


Boiling 


25  niin.  to 


Serving 

French  dressing  or 

an  acid   sauce. 


1  hr. 


French  artichokes  are  expensive  and  but  a  small  portion  is  edible. 
The  stem,  outside  leaves  and  choke  must  be  removed.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  a  leaf  can  be  pulled  out,  about  30  minutes. 


Artichokes 

Wash.     Boil 

20  min. 

Plain  or  mashed 

Jerusalem 

for  baking 

Baste 

with 
butter. 

and  seasoned. 

Asparagus 

Wash   and 

15  to 

On  buttered  toast 

scrape  oft' 

20  min. 

with  plain  or  white 

brown  spots. 

sauce. 

Tie  in  bunches. 

Beans,  dried 

See  recipe 

G  to  8  hrs. 

Beans,  Lima 

Shell 

40  to 

Butter  or  cream, 

GO  min. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Beans,  string 

String  and 

45  to 

Heat  with  butter. 

cut.     Place 

60  min. 

Salt  and  pepper. 

in  cloth  on 

Vinegar,  if  liked. 

ice  half  an 

hour. 

Beets,  old 

Wash,  soak  in 

1  to  G 

Peel,  slice,  add 

cold  water  y2 

hours. 

butter,  salt  and 

hr.     Cook  whole 

pepper. 

in  boiling  water. 

Oysterplant 

Wash  with  brush, 

1  hr. 

White  sauce  or 

cut  off,  brown 

saute. 

top.  Cut  in  1 

inch  lengths. 

Okra 

Cut  off  stems. 

20  to  30 

Heat  with  butter, 

min. 

salt  and  pepper; 
vinegar,  if  liked. 

Parsnips, 

Wash  with  brush 

2   hours. 

Cut  in  cubes,  add 

old 

and  split. 

white  sauce  or  cut  in 

Soak  15  min. 

strips  and  saute,  or 

in  cold  water. 

mash  as  potatoes. 

Beets 

Same  as  old 

30  to  40 

Same  as  old  beets. 

(young) 

beets,  except  do 
not  soak. 

min. 

Beet-tops 

Wash. 

1  hour. 

Clip,  add  butter,  salt 

No  salt. 

and  pepper. 

70 


THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 


Broccoli 
Brussels 
Sprouts 

Cabbage 

Carrots 
(old) 

Carrots 
(young) 

Cauliflower 


As  cauliflower. 
Pick  off  poor 
leaves.    Leave  in 
vinegar  and 
water  15  min. 
Cut  out  stalk, 
separate  leaves. 
Scrape  and  lay 
in   cold  water. 

As  old  carrots, 
except  do  not 
soak  in  water. 
Trim  off  leaves, 
soak  in  vinegar 
and  water,  tie 
in  cheese-cloth. 


As  cauliflower. 

20  to  30 

Drain,  pour  cold 

min. 

water  over  them.  Heat 

with   butter,   salt   and 

pepper. 

1-2  hrs. 

Plain  or  with  white 

uncovered. 

sauce  and  crumbs. 

1  hr. 

Cut  in  dice  and  add 

or  till 

white  sauce  or  saute. 

soft. 

20-30  min. 

30-40   min. 

White  sauce, 

Celery 

Scrape   lightly 
and  cut  in  inch 
lengths. 

20-30   min. 

Celery- 
roots 

Wash,  cut  off 
leaves  and  cut 
in  quarters. 

10  min. 

Corn 

Husk  and  re- 
move the  silk. 
For  baking  re- 
move silk,  tie 
husks  or  small 
end. 

Cucumbers 

Peel  and  cut  in 
quarters;  remove 
large  seeds. 

Egg-plant 

See  recipe. 

Endives 

Same  as 
spinach. 

Kale 

Same  as  cabbage. 

30  min. 
Baking 
114  hrs. 

Peas 

Shell  and  wash. 

20  min. 

Potatoes 

Wash  with 
brush. 

20-30  min. 

Baking 
30-45   min 

cheese  and  crumbs. 


White  sauce, 
cheese  and  crumbs. 

Simmer  in  white 
sauce  30  min.  before 
serving. 

On  cob;  or  cut  off  and 
heat  with  milk,  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper. 


Heat  in  white  sauce, 
flavored  with  onion  or 
with  melted  butter, 
seasoned  with   paprika. 


Same  as  spinach, 
with  white  sauce. 

Same  as  spinach. 


Butter  or  cream, 
salt  and  pepper. 

See  recipes. 


L  I  MORATORY  COOK  BOOK, 


71 


Potatoes 

Tut  off  dry 

45  min. 

isweet) 

Same  as  white. 

Baking 

browD  spots. 

1  hr. 

Radishes 

Wash ;  cut  off 

leaves.. 

30  min. 

In  white  sauce. 

Spinach 

Wash  in  7 

Covered 

Press  in  colander. 

waters;  use 

till 

Chop,  add   butter,  salt, 

tender  parts. 

soft. 

pepper.  Garnish  with 
slieed  eggs. 

Squash 

Pee],  if  old; 

20  min.  in 

.Mash  and  add  butter, 

(summer) 

cut  in  pieces, 

small 

salt  and  pepper. 

remove  seeds 

amount 
of  water. 

Squash 

Cut  in   pieces; 

Bake  till 

With  butter,  salt 

(winter) 

remove  seeds. 

soft. 

and  pepper. 

Tomatoes 

Place  in  boiling 

30  min. 

water;  remove 

without 

skin,  cut  in 

water. 

quarters. 

Turnips 

Wash   with 

45  min. 

Peel,  mash  or  cut  in 

(young) 

brush. 

pieces  and  serve  with 
white  sauce. 

Turnips 

Same  as  young. 

(old) 

except  soak 
y2  hr.  in  cold 

water. 

TURNIP  SOUFFLE. 
Peel  and  slice  white  turnip,  cook  till  tender.    Rub  through  collan- 
der.      Return  to  saucepan  over  fire,  stirring  into  it 
1  T.  butter 

1  T.  flour  mixed  together 
1  cup  hot  milk. 
Beat  to  smooth  mass.    Add  4  egg  whites,  beaten  light.      Bake  in 
pudding  dish  (buttered)  40  min.,  covered.    Uncover  and  brown. 


14  t.  salt 
Vs  t-  pepper 


DELMONICO  POTATOES  OR  AU  GRATIN. 

1  pt.  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  cubes. 
1  C.  thin  white  sauce,  highly  seasoned. 
%  to  %  C.  chopped  or  grated  cheese. 
Put  in  layers  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,    cover    with 
crumbs.    Bake  till  hot  and  brown.     (y2  recipe  for  two.) 


buttered 


"BOILED"  POTATOES. 

Choose  potatoes  of  about  the  same  size.    Wash  and  cook  in  fresh- 


72  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

ly  boiling  water  until  a  fork  will  penetrate  them  easily.  When  soft, 
drain,  uncover,  and  shake  gently  over  the  heat  until  the  outside  is  dry 
and  mealy;  keep  uncovered  in  a  warm  place  until  serving  time.    Peel. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

1  pt.  hot  boiled  potatoes  put  through  a  ricer,  or  a  wire  masher  may 
be  used. 

y2  t.  salt  14  C.  milk,  or  enough  to  hold 

y2  ssp.  pepper  potatoes  together. 

2  T.  butter 

Mash  and  beat  until  perfectly  fine,  smooth  and  light,  pile  on  a  hot 
dish  without  smoothing. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

Wash  and  scrub  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Bake  in  the  grate  of  a 
hot  oven  from  30  to  45  min.  or  until  soft.  Turn  them  every  15  min. 
to  keep  them  from  burning.  Test  by  pressing  with  the  hand.  When 
soft,  break  open  skin  to  let  steam  escape. 

POTATOES  IN  HALF-SHELL. 

Three  baked  potatoes  of  medium  size,  2  T.  milk,  2  t.  butter,  salt  to 

taste.      Cut  potato  in  two  lengthwise,  remove  inner  portion  and  mash. 

Add  butter,  salt,  beat  until  light,  pile  mixture  in  shells  and  put  in  oven 

to  warm.    Add  egg,  white  and  yolk  beaten  separately,  folding  in  white. 

CBEAMED  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  cubes,  heat  thoroughly  in  white  sauce 
or  cover  with  sauce  and  warm  in  oven. 

POTATOES  SLICED  AND  BAKED  WHOLE. 

6  raw  potatoes,  pared  2  T.  butter,  salt  and  pepper 

Cut  potatoes  lengthwise  into  14-inch  slices ;  carefully  put  slices  to- 
gether to  retain  original  shape  of  potato  and  run  two  wooden  tooth- 
picks, dipped  in  melted  butter,  through  each  in  baking  pan,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  butter ;  bake,  turning  often  and  basting  when  necessary,  or 
bake  with  roast. 

POTATO  APPLES. 

2  C.  hot  riced  potatoes  1-1G  t.  cayenne 

2  T.  butter  2  T.  milk 

1-3  C.  grated  cheese  ,  1  egg 

1/2  t.  salt 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Shape  in 
form  of  small  apples,  roll  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Insert  clove  at  both  stem  and  blossom  end  of  each  apple. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  ~:\ 

SWEET  POTATOES,  SOUTHERN  STYLE. 
Hake  6  sweet   potatoes,  remove  from  oven,  cut  in  half  lengthwise 
and  scoop  out  inside.     Mash,  add  2  T.  butter,  and  cream  to  moisten. 
Add  ]/i  t.  salt.    Refill  skins  and  bake  5  ruin,  in  hot  oven. 

POTATO  PUFF. 

6  medium  size  potatoes  3  eggs 

1  t.  salt  y2  cup  hot  milk 

Vs  t-  pepper 

Wash  potatoes,  boil  until  soft,  peal,  mash.  Put  through  ricer. 
Add  salt,  pepper,  hot  milk,  slowly  beating  all  the  time.  Add  egg  yolks 
beaten  light,  fold  in  egg  whites.  Turn  into  hot  buttered  dish.  Bake 
y2  hour. 

POTATO  MARBLES. 

Cut  large  potatoes  into  balls  like  marbles  with  a  cutter.  Cook 
slowly  in  boiling  water  10  min.,  or  until  tender.  Drain,  and  shake 
carefully  until  dry.  Pour  over  them  1  T.  melted  butter  for  each 
cupful  and  roll  about  until  all  are  buttered ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper 
and  minced  parsley. 

Individual  one  potato  cut  into  balls.  May  be  served  with  Maitre 
de  Hotel  butter,  parboiled  and  fried  in  deep  fat. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Cut  1  pt.  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice  or  thin  slices  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  1  T.  minced  onion  in  1  oz.  butter 
until  yellow.  Add  potatoes  and  stir  with  a  fork  until  they  have  ab- 
sorbed all  the  butter,  being  careful  not  to  break  them.  Sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  and  serve  hot.  (1  T.  vinegar  heated  with  the  butter 
gives  a  good  flavor.) 

CREAMED  LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

2  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  in  small  cubes. 

!/4  cup  chopped  fine  onion. 

1  cup  wiiite  sauce  No.  1,  or  browTn  gravy. 

%  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  T.  butter. 

Place  one-half  the  potatoes  in  a  small  baking-dish,  forming  an 
even  layer,  then  the  finely  chopped  onion ;  sprinkle  with  one-half  the 
crumbs,  clot  with  1  T.  butter.  Add  the  remaining  half  of  potatoes, 
make  even,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  pour  over  the  wiiole  of  the  white 
sauce;  add  a  final  sprinkling  of  crumbs,  garnish  with  butter,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  brown. 

POTATO  BALLS. 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes.     Shape  in  balls  with  a  French  vegetable 


74  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

cutter.       Parboil  in  slightly  salted  water.       Drain  thoroughly,  then 
fry  in  deep  fat.      Sprinkle  with  salt.     Serve  as  a  garnish  with  meats. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE, 

To  two  cupfuls  of  smooth,  well-seasoned  and  quite  moist  mashed 
potatoes  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  When  a  little  cool  stir  in  lightly 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff.  Put  the  whole  into  a  pudding- 
dish  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

POTATO  EOSES. 
2  C.  mashed  potatoes  y8  t.  pepper 

1  egg  1  T.  butter 

%  t.  salt 

Add  ingredients  to  potatoes,  put  mixture  through  pastry  bag  and 
rose  tube.    Bake  until  potato  is  brown. 

POTATO  EOSES. 

Put  a  star  tin  tube  into  the  end  of  a  three-cornered  pastry  bag 
made  of  rubber  sheeting  or  thick,  firm  drilling.  Fill  bag  with  mashed 
potato,  twist  the  top  tightly  and  press  the  potato  through  the  tube  into 
small  mounds. 

CEEAMED  SWEET  POTATO. 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  cubes,  place  in  well  oiled  bak- 
ing dish,  cover  with  white  sauce,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

BEOWNED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  slices  14  inch  thick.  Spread  with  but- 
ter and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Brown  in  oven,  basting  often  with  sauce 
in  pan. 

BEOILED  POTATOES. 
Use  large  potatoes,  either  white  or  sweet,  which  have  been  boiled 
but  are  not  quite  done.      Pare  and  cut  in  thick  slices  lengthwise,  mak- 
ing about  four  for  each  potato.      Dip  in  melted  butter  or  beef  fat  and 
broil  under  gas  or  over  coals  until  browned  and  cooked  through. 

HASHED  POTATOES. 

Wash  and  pare  enough  potatoes  to  make  a  pint.  Chop  quite 
fine  and  soak  10  min.  in  cold  water.  Drain,  put  2  T.  butter  or  bacon 
fat  in  a  frying-pan,  add  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  add 
1  T.  vinegar,  cover  closely  and  cook  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  ten- 
der. Bring  forward  and  let  them  brown;  then  fold  over,  turn  out 
and  serve. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  75 

GERMAN  POTATOES. 

Pare  potatoes,  cut  in  V^-im-h  cubes,  saute  in  frying  pan  with  a 
small  amount  of  fat.      Season. 

SOUTHERN  HASH. 
Six  raw  potatoes  1  C.  stock 

1  small  onion  2  C.  meat,  chopped 

2  or  3  green  peppers  1  tomato 

Chop  potatoes  very  fine,  also  peppers  and  onion.  Melt  4  T.  but- 
ter in  frying  pan,  add  vegetables  with  stock  and  cook  till  potatoes  are 
tender.  Keep  covered  and  stir  often  to  prevent  sticking.  When  po- 
tatoes are  done  add  meat.       Season  well. 

POTATO  CUPS. 
Hot  mashed  potato  Vegetables 

Shape  potatoes  to  form  cups.  Fill  centre  with  vegetables  cut  very 
fine.  Season;  serve  a  garnish  and  vegetable. 

BAKED  STUFFED  TOMATOES. 
Cut  a  thin  slice  from  top  of  large  smooth  tomatoes.       Remove 
pulp  and  mix  pulp  with  equal  quantities  of  celery  and  bread  crumbs. 
Season.       Fill  tomatoes  with  mixture,  sprinkle  buttered  crumbs  on 
top.      Bake  in  pan  with  14-inch  water  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

BOILED  DINNER. 
4  lbs.  corn  beef  1  turnip 

3  beets  1  cabbage 

2  carrots  1  squash 

potatoes 
Wipe  meat  and  plunge  in  boiling  water.  Let  simmer  till  tender. 
Cook  beets  in  boiling  water  about  4  hours.  Beets  may  be  cooked 
the  day  before,  then  sliced  and  put  in  vinegar.  Bake  the  squash  sep- 
arately about  1  hr.  Wash  carrots  and  turnip  and  cabbage,  put  in 
meat  liquor.  Carrots  require  about  2  hrs.,  turnip  2  hrs.,  cabbage 
iy2  hrs.,  and  potatoes  are  pared  and  cooked  about  %  hr. 

Place  meat  in  center  of  platter;  place  sliced  carrots  and  turnip 
around  meat.     Serve  other  vegetables  separately. 

SPICED  BEETS. 

1  qt.  cooked  beets  \\  t.  mustard  seed 

2  cups  vinegar  G  cloves 

34  cup  sugar  y±  t.  salt 

2  in.  piece  cinnamon  dash  cayenne 

Heat  vinegar,  add  sugar,  and  other  spices.  Cook  until  mixture 
is  reduced  to  1-3.      Add  beets,  cook  20  min.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 


76  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

ASPARAGUS  TIPS  IN  CROUSTADES. 
Clean  asparagus,  tie  in  bunches,  place  in  pan  with  boiling  water. 
Cook  until  tips   are  tender.       Remove  tips   and   reserve  liquor  and 
tough  stalks  for  soup. 

Make  1  C.  white  sauce,  add  asparagus  tips,  cut  in  small  pieces; 
serve  in  croustades. 

CROUSTADES. 
Cut  stale  bread  into  squares  or  circles,  remove  centres,  leaving 
cases.      Brush  over  with  butter  and  brown  in  oven. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 
Remove  skins  from  tomatoes,  cut  in  half,  cook  until  soft,  season. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish  with  crumbs,  cover  with 
tomato,  put  on  another  layer  of  crumbs,  then  tomato,  sprinkle  top 
with  crumbs.     Bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

TOMATO  ASPIC  JELLY. 

1  C.  tomato  1  stick  celery 

%  box  gelatine  (Cox)  1  bay  leaf 

1  small  onion  2  cloves 

Cook  all  ingredients  except  vinegar  and  gelatine  10  min.,  add  2 
T.  vinegar  and  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water.  Stir 
until  dissolved.  Strain  and  pour  into  moulds.  Serve  with  mayon- 
naise dressing  on  lettuce  leaves. 

BAKED  BANANAS. 

Wash  bananas,  remove  skins  and  cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  then 
in  quarters.  Put  in  shallow  pan,  add  2  T.  melted  butter,  1-3  C. 
sugar,  2  T.  lemon  juice.  Bake  20  min.  Baste  often.  Serve  with 
lemon  sauce. 

GERMAN  CARROTS. 
6  small  carrots  2  T.  flour 

1  t.  salt  2  T.  butter 

%  t.  pepper  1  T.  chopped  parsley 

2  t.  sugar  Grated  nutmeg 

Wash  carrots,  and  cook  until  sctft.  Remove  skins  and  cut 
carrots  in  y2-mch  cubes.  Make  a  sauce  of  flour,  butter,  seasoning 
and  1%  C.  carrot  liquor.  Before  serving  sprinkle  parsley  over  top, 
and  nutmeg  if  desired. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS. 

3  cucumbers  %  T.  onion 

%  C.  soft  bread  crumbs  1  t.  parsley 

y2  C.  cold  meat  %  t.  salt 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  77 

%  C.  white  sauce  or  stock 

Pare  cucumbers,  cut  in  half  lengthwise.  JBoil  gently  6  min.  in 
salted  water.  Dry  on  towel,  fill  halves  with  stuffing;  if  too  dry 
moisten  with  stock.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs.  Place  in  baking 
pan.  Surround  with  cucumber  water  and  bake  in  slow  oven  40  min. 
Serve  with  well  seasoned  sauce. 

EGG  PLANT. 
Eemove  skin,  cut  in  slices  ^-inch  thick.   Sprinkle  slices  with  salt. 
Let  stand  under  presure  1  hr.      Dip  slices  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs. 
Fry  in  deep  fat. 

BAKED  SQUASH. 
Wash  squash.     Cut  in   half.     Eemove  seeds.       Put  in  pan,   sur- 
round with  ^-inch  water.      Bake  until  tender. 

PABSNIP  CAKES. 

Wash  parsnips  and  cook  45  min.  in  boiling  salted  water.  Ee- 
move skins,  mash,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Shape  in 
small  flat  cakes,  roll  in  flour  and  saute  in  butter. 

STUFFED  ONIONS  WITH  NUTS. 
Peel  8  Spanish  onions.  Parboil  5  min.  Eemove  a  portion  of  cen- 
ter, leaving  a  thin  shell.  Chop  fine  1  C.  meat  nuts,  1  C.  soft  bread 
crumbs,  1-3  C.  melted  butter,  add  %  t.  salt,  1-16  t.  pepper,  1  egg.  Fill 
onions  with  mixture,  place  in  baking  dish,  surround  with  1  C.  water 
or  stock.      Bake  1  hr.    Serve  with  white  sauce. 

SPANISH  EICE. 

Blanch  2  C.  rice.  Cook  in  5  C.  boiling  water,  y2  t.  salt.  Cut  2 
slices  of  salt  pork  into  small  pieces  and  try  out.  Eemove  pork  and 
saute  y2  onion,  y2  green  pepper  in  fat.  Put  in  double  boiler,  add 
rice  that  has  been  drained;  moisten  with  3  C.  tomato  sauce.  Cook 
until  tender. 

SAUSAGE  AND  FEIED  APPLE. 

Wipe  sausages,  prick  with  fork  several  times,  brown  in  frying 
pan.  Make  syrup  of  y2  C.  sugar,  1  C.  water.  Cook  apples  cored 
and  sliced  ^-inch  thick  in  syrup  till  apples  are  soft,  but  not  broken. 
Serve  around  sausages. 

EICE  AND  PEPPEES. 

y2  C.  rice  y2  green  pepper 

3  T.  butter  3%  C.  boiling  water 

1  slice  onion 

Cook  rice  in  water  until  nearly  tender.      Melt  butter,  add  pepper 


78  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

and  onion  chopped  fine;  brown.  Drain  rice  when  nearly  tender;  add 
pepper  and  onion  and  tomato  sauce.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
tender. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

2  T.  butter  2  T.  flour 

1  C.  strained  tomato  V2  C.  tomato 

i/2  C.  stock  14  t.  salt 

1-1G  t.  pepper 

Make  as  a  white  sauce. 
ASPARAGUS  LOAF. 

Cook  41/2  T.  flour  and  2%  T.  butter  together;  add  y2  t.  salt, 
1-16  t.  pepper,  1  cup  milk.  When  boiling  add  2  T.  ham  or  chicken 
chopped  fine.  1  C.  asparagus  tips,  4  eggs  well  beaten.  Turn  into 
mould  thickly  buttered.  Cook  till  centre  is  firm  in  hot  water.  Do 
not  let  the  water  boil. 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 
Pare,  core  and  cut  2  apples  in  lengths.       Cut  eighths  in  slices, 
stir  into  batter.       Drop  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

BATTER 

1  1-3  C.  flour  14  t.  salt 

2  t.  baking  powder  (Rumford)  2-3  C.  milk 

1  egg 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually,  an  egg  well 
beaten. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

1/2  C.  sugar  2  T.  butter 

1  C.  boiling  water  14  t.  lemon  extract 

1  T.  cornstarch  i/s  t.  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch,  add  water  gradually,  stir  constantly, 
boil  5  min.      Remove  from  fire,  add  butter  and  lemon. 

BOILED  CABBAGE. 
Wash  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  cook  in  boiling  water,  uncovered, 
about  1  hour,  or  till  tender.       Drain,  chop  and  serve  with  mayon- 
naise or  vinegar. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

2  cups  corn  y2  t.  baking  powder 

2  egg  yolks  %  cup  flour 

2  egg  whites  Milk  to  make  soft  batter. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  79 

%  t.  salt 
Beat  yolks  till  light,  add  corn,  baking  powder  sifted  with  salt 
and  flour,  fold  in  whites,  add  milk. 

ARTICHOKES  CREAMED. 
Jerusalem   artichokes,   washed,   pared   and  cooked  in   acidulated 
water  until  soft.      Cut  in  cubes,  serve  with  white  sauce. 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE. 
Wipe,  pare  and  core  apples,  cut  in  small  pieces.       Add  y±  C. 
water  to   prevent  apples   sticking  to   pan.       Put    in    covered    dish 
and  cook  until  apples  are  of  a  reddish  color. 


Soups 


HOW  TO  CLEAR  SOUP  STOCK. 

Whites  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  or  raw,  lean  beef  chopped  fine 
are  employed  for  clearing  soup  stock.  The  albumen  found  in  each 
affects  the  clearing  by  drawing  to  itself  some  of  the  juices  which  have 
been  extracted  from  the  meat  and  by  action  of  heat  have  been  coagu- 
lated. Some  particles  rise  to  the  top  and  form  a  scum,  others  are 
precipitated,  leaving  the  soup  between  clear  when  cold. 

Remove  the  fat  from  the  stock  and  put  the  quantity  to  be  cleared 
in  a  stew  pan,  allowing  the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  to  each  quart  of 
stock.  Beat  the  egg  slightly,  break  or  crush  the  shell  in  small  pieces 
and  add  to  stock.  Place  on  front  of  range  and  stir  constantly  until 
the  boiling  point  is  reached.  Do  not  boil,  but  set  back  where  it 
may  simmer  20  min.  Then  remove  scum  and  strain  through  double 
thickness  of  cheese  cloth  placed  over  a  fine  strainer.  If  stock  to  be 
cleared  is  not  sufficiently  seasoned,  additional  seasoning  must  be  add- 
ed as  soon  as  the  stock  has  lost  its  jelly-like  consistency;  not  after 
clearing  is  effected.  Many  think  the  flavor  obtained  from  a  few 
shavings  of  lemon  rind  an  agreeable  addition. 

This  method  is  used  for  clearing  stock  with  which  to  make  aspic 
jelly ;  jelly  for  boned  chicken  or  tongue  must  be  very  transparent; 
so  extra  care  must  be  taken  in  the  straining.  So,  for  aspic  jelly,  it 
is  always  best  to  strain  the  stock  through  cotton  flannel;  do  not 
squeeze  it  through,  but  let  it  drip  through,  as  is  done  with  grape 
juice.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  flannel  does  not  touch  the  top 
of  the  stock  already  strained.  Do  not  strain  close  at  the  end,  for 
there  is  danger  of  getting  some  of  the  sediment  in. 

Two  thicknesses  of  the  cotton  flannel  would  be  even  surer  to  make 
the  stock  clear.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  use  a  cotton  flannel  bag,  such 
as  is  used  for  jellies  and  grape  juice.  Baby's  flannel  is  one  of  the 
best  things  to  use,  because  it  is  of  so  fine  a  texture. 


GENERAL  METHOD  FOR  PUREES. 

Simmer  the  vegetables  or  meat  in  water  or  stock  until  tender. 
Add  the  seasoning  the  last  hour.  When  tender  remove  the  large  pieces 
of  bone  or  meat;  press  the  remainder  through  a  colander  or  coarse 
sieve.  Return  to  water.  This  may  be  done  several  hours  before 
needed  if  necessary.  When  ready  to  use  remove  the  fat;  reheat  and 
add  to  a  sauce  made  of  hot  butter  and  flour,  cooked  thoroughly,  stock 
or  water,  and  seasonings.  When  these  are  thoroughly  blended  add 
the  garnishings. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  81 


BEEF  OE  BROWN  STOCK. 

8  lbs.  of  shin  of  beef  1  onion 

8  qts.  cold  water  1  stick  celery 

1  medium  sized  turnip  12  pepper-corns 

1  medium  sized  carrot  6  cloves 

1  parsley  root  and  leaves  1  T.  salt 

Wipe  the  beef  with  a  wet  cloth.  Take  the  meat  from  the  bones 
and  cut  it  into  small  pieces. 

Put  aside  y2  lb.  of  meat.  Put  the  rest  of  the  meat  and  the 
bones  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  the  water.  Let  it  stand  15  to  30 
min.,  or  until  the  water  is  red;  then  place  on  the  fire  and  let  come 
slowly  to  the  simmering  point.  Put  the  %  1D-  meat  into  a  hot  frying 
pan  with  marrow  from  the  bones,  or  use  drippings.  Cook  until  well 
browned.  Add  to  the  simmering  meat  and  cook  5  hours.  Then 
add  the  vegetables  and  cook  1  hour  longer.  Season  and  allow  to 
cool  rapidly.      Bemove  fat,  and  clear  according  to  previous  directions. 

WHITE  SOUP  STOCK  II. 
4  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal  Blade  of  mace 

2  qts.  cold  water  2  stalks  celery 
1  T.  salt  1  onion 

!/2  tsp.  pepper-corns. 

Wipe  meat,  remove  from  bone,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put 
meat,  bone,  water  and  seasonings  in  kettle.  Heat  gradually  to  boil- 
ing point,  skimming  frequently.  Simmer  four  or  five  hours  and 
strain.  If  scum  has  been  carefully  removed  and  soup  is  strained 
through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth,  stock  will  be  quite  clear. 

WHITE  SOUP  STOCK  III. 

The  water  in  which  a  fowl  or  chicken  is  cooked  makes  white 
stock. 

BOUILLON. 
(3  pts.      Time,  5  hours.) 

3  lbs.  of  beef  from  under  side  of    3  qts.  cold  water 
round  and  cut  in  1  onion 

inch  cubes.  i/2  carrot 

1  sprig  parsley  6  pepper-corns 

2  sticks  celery  1  tsp.  salt  added  just 

1  bay-leaf  before  taking  soup 

2  cloves  from  fire 

.  Wipe  meat  with  a  wet  cloth  and  cut  in  inch  cubes.  Let  stand 
in  the  cold  water  1  hour.  Cover,  and  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point,  taking  off  any  scum  that  rises.       Then  place  it  where  it  will 


82  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

sinmier  for  four  hours.      At  the  end  of  that  time  add  the  vegetables 
cut  into  dice  and  the  spices,  and  simmer  1  hour  longer.     Strain  into 
an  earthen  bowl.      Leave  uncovered  and  cool  rapidly. 
Remove  the  fat  and  clear.      Serve  in  bouillon  cups. 

CONSOMME. 

3  lbs.  beef,  poorer  part  2  T.  butter 

of  round  1  T.  salt 

1  lb.  marrow  bone  1  tsp.  pepper-corns 

3  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal  4  cloves 

1  qt.  chicken  stock  3  sprigs  thyme 

Carrot,  turnip,  celery —  1  sprig  marjoram 

1-3  cup  of  each  cut  2  sprigs  parsley 

1-3  cup  sliced  onion  y2  bay  leaf 
3  qts.  cold  water 

Cut  beef  in  one  and  one-half -inch  cubes  and  brown  one-half  in 
some  of  the  marrow  from  bone.  Put  remaining  half  in  kettle  with 
cold  water.  Add  veal  cut  in  pieces,  browned  meat  and  bones.  Let 
stand  V.2  hour.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  3  hours, 
removing  the  scum  as  it  forms  on  top.  Add  1  qt.  liquor  in  which  a 
fowl  has  been  cooked  and  simmer  2  hours.  Cook  carrot,  turnips, 
onion  and  celery  in  butter  5  minutes;  then  add  to  soup  with  remain- 
ing seasonings.      Cook  iy2  hours,  strain,  cool  quickly  and  clear. 

CHICKENS'  FEET  STOCK. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  feet.      Let  steam  15  min.    Remove  outer 
skin  on  feet.       Put  feet  in  saucepan,   add  1  t.  salt,   cold   water  to 
cover.      Let  simmer  until  flesh  on  feet  is  tender. 

SALSIFY  SOUP. 
1  bunch  salsify  %  t.  pepper 

2V2  C.  boiling  water  1-16  t.  cayenne 

1  f.  butter  2  C.  scalded  milk. 

i/2  t.  salt 

Wash  salsify  with  brush.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender 
(about  V2  to  2  hrs.)  Reserve  liquor.  Remove  skin  and  pare  salsify 
in  i/g-inch  pieces.  Reheat  stock.  Add  seasoning,  scalded  milk,  and 
serve. 

SALMON  BISQUE. 

1  C.  salmon  y^  t.  salt 

2  C.  milk  y8  t.  pepper 

1  T.  chopped  parsley  1-16  t.  cayenne 

Heat  salmon  and  milk,  strain,  season  and  add  chopped  parsley. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  83 

TOMATO  BISQUE. 
1/2  can  tomatoes  1  tsp.  salt 

1  qt.  milk  y2  ssp.  pepper 

2  T.  butter  1  ssp.  soda 

1  T.  cornstarch  Dash  of  cayenne 

Stew  the  tomatoes  until  very  soft;  then  pass  them  through  a 
fine  sieve  or  strainer.  Put  the  strained  tomatoes  into  a  granite- 
ware  saucepan  and  add  1  ssp.  soda;  when  it  has  ceased  foaming  add 
the  butter,  a  small  piece  at  a  time;  if  put  in  all  at  once  it  will  show 
an  oily  line;  add  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne. 

Put  the  milk  into  a  double  boiler  and  scald,  then  stir  into  it  a 
tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  mixed  with  a- little  of  the  cold  milk;  let 
it  scald  15  min.,  or  long  enough  to  cook  the  cornstarch.  Then  pour 
the  milk  into  the  tomatoes.    Beat  well  together  and  serve  at  once. 

CKEAM  OF  LETTUCE. 

2V2  C.  white  stock  II  or  III  1  T.  butter 

2  heads  of  lettuce,  cut  fine  Yolk  of  1  egg 

2  T.  rice  Few  grains  nutmeg 

V2  c.  cream  1  tsp.  salt 

!/4  T.  onion  finely  chopped  %  tsp.  pepper 

Cook  onion  5  min.  in  butter;  add  lettuce,  rice  and  stock.  Cook 
until  rice  is  soft,  then  add  cream,  yolk  of  egg  slightly  beaten,  nut- 
meg, salt  and  pepper.  Keinove  the  outer  leaves  from  lettuce,  using 
only  tender  part  for  soup. 

PUREE  OF  PEAS. 
1  can  Marrowfat  peas  2  T.  butter 

1  pt.  cold  water  2  T.  flour 

1  pt.  milk  1  tsp.  salt 

1  slice  onion  y8  tsp.  pepper 

Drain  peas  from  their  liquor,  add  sugar  and  cold  water,  and  sim- 
mer 20  min.  Eub  through  a  sieve,  reheat  and  thicken  with  butter 
and  flour  cooked  together.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion 
and  add  milk  to  pea  mixture;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Peas 
too  old  to  serve  as  a  vegetable  may  be  utilized  for  soups. 

POTATO  SOUP. 
3  potatoes  1  tsp.  salt 

•      1  qt.  milk  y8  tsp.  pepper 

2  slices  onion  y±  tsp.  celery  salt 

3  T.  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  T.  flour  1  tsp.  chopped  parsley 


84  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Cook  potatoes  in  boiling  salted  water;  when  soft  rub  through  a 
strainer.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion  and  add  milk  slowly  to 
potatoes.  Melt  half  the  butter,  add  dry  ingredients,  stir  till  well 
mixed;  then  stir  into  boiling  soup;  cook  1  min.,  strain,  add  remaining 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  parsley. 

SALMON  SOUP. 
1-3  can  salmon  4  T.  flour 

1  qt.  scalded  milk  iy2  tsp.  salt 

2  T.  butter  Few  grains  pepper 

Drain  oil  from  salmon,  remove  skin  and  bones,  rub  through  a 
sieve.     Add  gradually  the  milk,  season  and  bind. 

POTTAGE  A  LA  REINE. 

Put  a  chicken  into  3  qts.  of  water.  Simmer  it  slowly  for  two 
hours,  or  until  the  chicken  is  very  tender.  A  half  hour  before  re- 
moving it  add  !/o  lb.  rice  and  a  bouquet  containing  1  root  parsley,  a 
sprig  thyme,  a  thin  slice  onion  and  a  stick  of  celery.  Boil  it  until 
the  rice  is  soft,  then  strain  through  a  colander.  Let  the  broth  cool 
and  remove  the  grease.  Remove  the  white  meat  from  the  bones  of 
the  chicken,  put  it  with  the  rice  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  pulp. 
Pass  the  pulp  through  a  puree  sieve,  moistening  it  with  a  little  stock 
to  make  it  pass  through  easier.  When  ready  to  serve  add  the  puree 
to  the  stock,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  heat  thoroughly  with- 
out boiling.      Just  before  sending  to  the  table  add  V2  pint  hot  cream. 

If  desired  the  soup  can  be  thickened  with  a  little  roux  or  with 
15  blanched  almonds,  chopped  and  pounded  to  a  paste,  using  a  little 
cream  to  prevent  almonds  from  oiling. 

CLAM  CHOWDEE. 

50  clams  2  T.  butter 

1  medium  sized  onion  4  T.  flour 

6  oz.  salt  pork  1  pt.  milk  or  cream 

3  large  potatoes  1  ssp.  mace 
1  tsp.  salt  1  ssp.  thyme 
%  tsp.  pepper  3  ship  crackers 

Put  the  clams  with  their  own  liquor  into  a  saucepan  on  the  fire. 
When  they  have  boiled  3  min.  remove  the  clams  and  return  the  liquor 
to  the  fire.  Cut  the  pork  into  slices.  Chop  an  onion  and  fry  it  with 
the  pork  until  both  are  browned.  Then  stir  in  two  tablespoons  flour.' 
When  the  flour  is  cooked  add  slowly  the  clam  liquor,  a  dash  of  mace 
and  thyme,  and  salt  if  necessary.  Then  add  3  parboiled  potatoes,  cut 
into  dice  and  cook  until  potatoes  are  tender.      When  ready  to  serve, 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  85 

add  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  the  clams  cut  into  pieces,  and  %  *D-  °f 
broken  ship  crackers,  or  any  hard  water  cracker. 

CONSOMME  AUX  PATES. 
Consomme,  served  with  noodles,  macaroni,  spaghetti,  vermicelli, 
or  any  Italian  pastes  first  cooked  in  boiling  salted  water. 

CAEEOT  SOUP. 

1  pt.  sliced  carrots  1  T.  flour 

1  qt.  water  1  t.  salt 

1  pt.  milk  1-1G  t.  paprika 

1  T.  butter 

Boil  carrots  until  soft.  Put  through  sieve.  Blend  butter  and 
flour;  add  carrot  liquor.  Stir  in  carrot  pulp,  season,  and  boil  5 
minutes,  then  add  milk. 

CUCUMBEK  SOUP. 
3  large  cucumbers  2  blades  mace 

2  t.  butter  1  C.  milk 

1  slice  onion  3  C.  white  stock 

3  T.  flour  2  egg  yolks 

y2  C.  cream  Salt  and  pepper 

Peel  cucumbers,  slice  and  remove  seeds.  Cook  in  butter  10  min. 
Add  flour  and  stock.  Scald  milk  with  onion  and  mace.  Combine 
mixtures.     Rub  through  sieve,  add  cream  and  beaten  yolks.     Season. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP. 

1  C.  milk  1  T.  butter 

1  can  corn  1  T.  flour 

1  pt.  H20  2-3  t.  salt 

1  C.  cream  %  t.  paprika 

Mix  H20  with  corn.  Cook  till  tender.  Sift.  Make  white 
sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk,  add  corn  water,  add  cream. 

ONION  SOUP. 

5  onions  1  t.  salt 

2  T.  butter  1  T.  flour 

1  qt.  milk  %  t.  pepper 

1  pt.  boiling  water  or  stock. 

Directions :  Cut  onions  in  small  pieces.  Fry  in  butter  till 
brown.  Add  flour;  cook  3  minutes.  Add  water  or  stock,  boil  till 
tender.  Rub  all  possible  through  sieve.  Add  hot  milk,  salt  and 
pepper. 


86  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

CORN  CHOWDER. 

Cut  two  slices  of  salt  pork  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  saucepan  and 
try  out  fat,  add  two  slices  of  onion,  chopped  fine,  saute  until  brown. 
Add  y%  C.  sliced  potatoes,  2  C.  water  and  corn  cut  from  3  ears  of 
corn.  Boil  %  lir.  Add  2  C.  milk,  and  bind  with  2  T.  flour  and  2  T. 
butter.      Add  y±  t.  salt,  y8  t.  pepper. 


BAKED  BEAN  PUEEE. 

3  C.  cold  beans  y2  t.  salt 

2  slices  onion  y8  t.  pepper 

2  stalks  celery  1-16  t.  cayenne 

2  C.  tomato  (stewed)  2  pts.  stock  or  water 

Directions :  Put  beans,  onion,  celery,  tomato  and  stock  into  a 
sauce-pan,  cover,  heat  to  boiling  point,  simmer  15  min.  Strain 
through  puree  sieve,  pressing  through  all  pulp  possible.  Add  sea- 
sonings.    Sprinkle  top  with  croutons.     Serve  hot. 


ASPARAGUS. 

Drain  and  rinse  asparagus.  Reserve  tips.  Add  stalks  to  2  cups 
water.  Boil  5  min.  Drain,  add  2  cups  stock,  a  slice  onion.  Boil 
30  min.  Rub  through  sieve  and  bind  with  4  T.  butter  and  4  T. 
flour.    Add  y±  t.  salt,  Vs  t.  pepper,  2  cups  scalded  milk. 


HALIBUT  PUREE. 

%  cup  cold  boiled  halibut  3  T.  butter 

1  pt.  milk  2  T.  flour 

1  slice  onion  V>  t.  salt 

1-16  t.  mace  %  t.  pepper 

Rub  fish  through  sieve.     Scald  milk  with  onion  and  mace.     Re- 
move onion,  add  fish.     Bind  with  butter  and  flour.     Season. 


PEANUT  PUREE. 

1  qt.  milk  1  t.  onion  juice 

1  cup  peanuts,  pounded  ys  t.  paprika 

1  piece  bay  leaf  2  T.  cornstarch 

1  t.  celery  seed  1  cup  milk 

Place  all  in  double  boiler.  When  very  hot  add  cornstarch  dilu- 
ted in  milk.  Cook  15  min.  Strain.  Serve  with  1  t.  whipped 
cream. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  87 

BLACK  BEAN  PUREE. 

iy2  cups  black  beans  2  drops  Tabasco  sauce 

Y2  oniou  1  T.  butter 

3  cloves  1  T.  flour 

1  t.  salt  1  hard-cooked  egg 

pinch  cayenne  y2  lemon  cut  in  thin 

1  pt.  hot  water  slices 

Wash  beans  and  soak  over  night.  Simmer  till  soft,  3  or  4  hours. 
Add  water.  Last  hour  of  cooking  add  onion  stuck  with  cloves. 
When  soft  rub  through  sieve.  Bind  with  flour  and  butter.  Place 
lemon  in  tureen  and  strain  soup  through  it.  Grate  egg  on  top  just 
before  serving. 

TOMATO  BISQUE  No.  2. 
y2  can  tomatoes  4  T.  flour 

1  slice  onion  4  T.  butter 

14  t.  soda  1  t.  salt 

1  quart  milk  i/8  t.  pepper 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  flour,  butter  and  milk.  Put  tomato  and 
onion  in  sauce-pan,  cook  10  min.  Strain,  add  soda,  then  add  to  milk 
mixture.      Do  not  combine  mixtures  until  readv  to  serve. 


GARNISHES  FOR  SOUPS 

KOYAL  CUSTARD. 

2  yolks  Dash  of  cayenne 

1  entire  egg  y2  cup  beef  stock 

1-3  tsp.  salt 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  but  not  to  a  froth.  Add  the  salt  and  the 
clear  beef  stock.  Pour  the  mixture  in  a  small  pan  or  flat  dish,  so  it 
will  be  about  one-half  inch  deep.  Set  the  pan  into  another  contain- 
ing hot  water  and  place  them  in  a  very  moderate  oven  so  that  the  cus- 
tard will  set  without  bubbles  and  without  browning  on  top.  Let 
the  custard  become  perfectly  cold.  Without  removing  it  from  the 
pan,  cut  it  into  cubes  one-half  inch  square,  or  into  fancy  forms  with 
vegetable  cutters.  These  pieces  should  be  placed  carefully  in  the 
consomme  after  it  is  in  the  tureen,  allowing  three  or  four  pieces  to 
each  portion  of  soup. 

EGG  BALLS. 

Rub  to  a  paste  with  a  wooden  spoon  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled 
eggs;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  add  enough  raw  yolk  to 


88  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

bind  the  paste;  form  it  into  balls  one-half  the  size  of  a  natural  yolk; 
roll  them  in  white  of  egg  and  then  in  flour  and  poach  the  balls  in 
boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes. 

Three  yolks  will  make  five  balls.       One  ball  is  enough  to  allow 
for  each  portion  of  soup. 


IMPEKIAL  STICKS. 
Cut  stale  bread  in   1-3-inch  slices,  remove  crusts,  spread  thinly 
with  butter,  and  cut  slices  in  1-3-inch  strips;  put  in  a  pan  and  bake 
until  delicately  browned. 

CEOUTONS. 

Cut  stale  bread  in  1-3-inch  slices  and  remove  crusts.  Spread 
thinly  with  butter.  Cut  slices  in  1-3-inch  cubes,  put  in  pan  and  bake 
until  delicately  browned,  or  fry  in  deep  fat. 


Sandwiches 


DIRECTIONS  FOE  MAKING  SANDWICHES. 

In  preparing  bread  for  sandwiches,  always  cut  the  bread  thin  and 
remove  the  crusts.  If  butter  is  used,  it  should  be  creamed,  (i.  e. 
worked  with  a  wooden  spatula  or  spoon),  and  the  bread  should  be 
spread  before  cutting  from  the  loaf.       Spread  both  slices  lightly. 

Spread  %  the  number  of  slices  with  the  mixture  to  be  used  for 
filling;  cover  these  with  the  remaining  pieces;  and  cut  in  squares, 
oblongs  or  triangles. 

If  the  sandwiches  are  shaped  with  round  or  fancy  cutters,  the 
bread  should  be  shaped  before  spreading,  that  there  may  be  no  waste 
of  butter. 

Sandwiches  which  are  prepared  several  hours  before  serving  time 
may  be  kept  fresh  and  moist  by  wrapping  in  a  napkin  wrung  out  of 
hot  water  and  keeping  in  a  cold  place.  Paraffin  e  paper  is  often  used 
for  the  same  purpose. 

Bread  for  sandwiches  cuts  better  when  a  day  old.  Always  spread 
sandwiches  with  a  silver  knife. 

Serve  sandwiches  piled  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily  or  a  nap- 
kin, or  in  sandwich  basket. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOE   SANDWICHES. 

Soft  cheese — plain  Spanish  onions  with  ham  and 

soft  cheese  with  chopped  nuts  pickle 

ham  club — brown  bread  with  ham,  cu- 

egg  cumber  and  mayonnaise 

anchovy  paste  Bacon  and  cucumber  with  brown 

chicken  bread 

tongue  W.  D.  S.  S. — chopped  olives, 

lettuce  (heart  leaves  with  may-  nuts,  pickle  and  celery  with 

onnaise)  mayonnaise — rye  bread 

sardine  Jelly  and  nuts,  banana,  raisins 

peanut  butter  and  figs 

EUSSIAN  SANDWICHES. 

Slightly  butter  thin  slices  of  bread;  moisten  fine-chopped  olives 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  spread  on  the  buttered  slices;  spread 
other  slices  with  Neufchatel  or  any  cream  cheese,  and  press  together 
in  pairs. 


90  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

CHEESE  AND  ENGLISH  WALNUT  SANDWICHES. 

14  lb.  grated  cheese  14  lb.  walnut  meats  sliced  thin 

14  lb.  butter  Salt  and  paprika  to  taste 

Work  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  seasoning  and  grated  cheese 

gradually;  then  mix  in  the  nuts,  which  should  be  sliced  very  thin; 

spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread.      Particularly  good  with  brown  bread 

and  served  with  a  simple  vegetable  salad. 

PEANUT  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  freshly  roasted  peanuts  very  fine;  then  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  until  smooth;  season  with  salt.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Butter  two  pieces  of  bread,  spread  one  with  peanut  mixture 
and  the  other  with  shredded  lettuce,  and  press  the  two  together. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  finger  rolls  lengthwise,  remove  the  crumb  from  the  lower  half 
and  fill  with  chicken  salad;  place  very  small  lettuce  leaves  or  tender 
celery  tops  at  each  end,  and  press  on  the  upper  half. 

MOSAIC  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  the  bread  (white,  brown  and  graham)  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  use  four  or  five  pieces  in  each  sandwich,  putting  them  together  so 
that  the  colors  will  contrast.  Spread  thinly  with  butter  or  other 
smooth  filling. 

CHECKERBOARD  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  the  crust  from  loaves  of  white  and  brown  bread,  so  that  they 
have  square  edges  and  are  blocks  of  uniform  size;  cut  these  length- 
wise into  slices  one  inch  thick,  and  these  into  strips  one  inch  wide; 
place  together,  alternating  the  colors,  three  blocks  wide  and  three 
blocks  deep.  Spread  with  butter  flavored  with  grated  cheese  and  a 
little  red  pepper.      Chill  thoroughly  before  slicing. 

DATE  AND  GINGER  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  the  dates  and  preserved  ginger;  moisten  with  syrup  from 
the  ginger  jar  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Cook  to  a  paste.  Cool  and 
use  with  bread  or  lady  fingers.  Preserved  ginger  may  be  used  alone 
and  without  cooking. 

FIG  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  !/4  lb.  figs  very  fine;  add  %  c.  water  and  cook  to  a  smooth 
paste;  add  also  1-3  c.  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  very  fine  and 
pounded  to  a  paste,  with  a  little  rose  water;  also  the  juice  of  half  a 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  91 

lemon.      When  cold,  spread  the  mixture  on  lady  fingers.      Bread  may 
be  used  instead  of  cake. 

DATE  SANDWICHES. 

(a)  y2  c.  dates  and  %  c.  English  walnut  meats  chopped  fine  and 
mixed  with,  y2  c.  cream. 

Cut  entire  wheat  bread  in  rounds  spread  with  butter,  add  a,  and 
put  %  an  English  walnut  meat  dipped  in  white  of  egg  on  the  top  of 
each  sandwich. 

CLUB  SANDWICHES. 

Cut  bread  in  triangles  and  toast  a  light  brown.  Spread  with 
mayonnaise  dressing,  cover  with  a  lettuce  leaf,  then  lay  thin  slices 
of  cold  chicken  (white  meat)  upon  the  lettuce;  over  this  arrange  slices 
of  broiled  bacon,  then  lettuce,  and  cover  with  the  other  triangle  of 
toast  spread  with  mayonnaise.      Trim  neatly  and  arrange  on  a  plate. 

ANCHOVY  PASTE   FOE   SPANISH   SANDWICHES. 

2  anchovies  2  T.  vinegar 

2  pickles  (small)  2  yolks  hard  cooked 

1  sprig  parsley  1-16  t.  pepper 

2  T.  olive  oil  %  t.  salt 

3  T.  capers 

Pound  all  to  a  paste  in  porcelain  mortar,  season,  mix  well.  But- 
ter slightly  a  thin  slice  of  bread.  Spread  one  side  with  the  mixture. 
Sprinkle  with  white  of  egg  chopped  fine.  Cover  with  another  slice 
of  thin  bread. 


Pastry 


Flour,  iy2  cups  Salt,  y2  tsp. 

Butter,  14  cup.  Ice  water,  y±  cup 

Add  salt  to  flour,  aud  work  in  one-half  the  butter  with  tips  of 
fingers  or  with  a  case-knife.  Moisten  dough  with  ice  water.  Turn 
on  a  board,  dredge  sparingly,  with  flour,  pat  and  roll  out.  Fold  in 
other  half  of  butter  by  placing  upper  half  of  crust  over  it.  Press 
edges  together  firmly  to  incase  as  much  air  as  possible,  press  with  the 
rolling-pin  and  roll  out.  Fold  so  as  to  make  three  layers ;  turn  dough 
half  way  around  and  roll  out ;  repeat.  Use  pastry  at  once,  or  fold  in 
cheese  cloth,  put  in  a  covered  dish  and  keep  in  a  cool  place,  but  never 
in  direct  contact  with  ice.  Plain  paste  requires  a  moderate  oven. 
This  quantity  will  make  one  pie  with  two  crusts,  or  two  pies  where  the 
rim  is  built  up.  Dotting  the  upper  crust  with  butter  just  before 
sending  to  the  oven  will  give  a  flaky  appearance.  Milk  or  egg  brushed 
over  the  pie  will  give  a  glazed  appearance.  Pie  crust,  no  top,  use 
1  C.  flour  plus  4  T.  butter. 


TOP  CRUST  OF  PIE. 

Do  not  put  perforations  near  edge.  Press  edges  of  pie  crust 
down  to  tin  with  fingers.  For  thick  crust  on  edges  put  strip  of 
dough  moistened  with  H20  or  milk.  Brush  over  with  milk  or  white 
of  egg.      Put  pieces  of  butter  on  top  for  brown  spots. 


COMMON  PASTRY. 

Work  butter  as  for  puff  pastry.  For  flakey  pastry,  FOLD  as  for 
puff  pastry.  Use  wooden  spoon  for  packing  butter.  (1  lb.  rolls 
butter.  14  1°-  equals  y2  C.  butter).  Sift  NaCl  into  flour  or  mix 
with  butter.  Chop  butter  in  with  knife.  Keep  board  slightly 
floured.  Add  cold  H20  sufficient  to  moisten.  Put  H20  in  different 
places  of  dough.  Have  flour  distributed  through  quite  dry, — layers 
of  flour  and  layers  of  butter;  then  it  is  ready  to  turn  out  on  board, 
floured.  Roll  pie  crust  from  you.  Roll  from  y8  inch  to  little 
thicker. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  93 

PUFF  PASTE. 

1  pound  butter  Ice  water 

1  pound  pastry  flour 

Wash  the  butter,  pat  and  fold  until  no  water  remains.  Reserve 
two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  shape  remainder  into  a  square  piece 
one-half  inch  thick,  and  put  on  floured  board.  Work  the  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  into  the  flour  with  the  tips  of  fingers  until  well 
blended.  Moisten  to  a  dough  with  ice  water,  turn  on  a  floured  board 
and  knead  to  a  smooth  dough.  Roll  it  in  a  napkin  and  place  it  on 
ice  for  15  minutes,  that  it  may  become  thoroughly  cold.  Eoll  the 
cold  paste  into  an  oblong  piece  one-fourth  inch  thick,  keeping  the 
corners  square.  Place  the  pat  of  butter  in  the  centre  and  fold  the 
paste  first  from  the  sides,  then  from  the  ends,  folding  one  under  and 
one  over  the  enclosed  butter.  Press  the  edges  firmly  together  to  en- 
close as  much  air  as  possible.  Turn  the  folded  side  down,  and  with 
a  rolling-pin  roll  it  LIGHTLY  AWAY  FROM  YOU  into  a  long,  nar- 
now  strip,  keeping  it  as  even  as  possible.  Fold  it  over,  making  three 
even  layers  of  paste;  roll  out  and  fold  as  before. 

Roll  in  a  napkin  put  in  a  shallow  pan,  place  between  two  pans 
of  ice  and  let  stand  five  to  fifteen  minutes.  Repeat  the  rolling  and 
folding  six  times.  After  fourth  rolling,  fold  from  ends  to  centre  and 
double,  making  four  layers.  For  pattw  shells,  roll  puff-paste  one- 
fourth  inch  thick,  shape  with  a  patty  or  biscuit-cutter,  first  dipped  in 
flour  or  hot  water.  Remove  centres  from  one-half  the  rounds  with 
a  smaller  cutter.  Brush  over  with  cold  water  the  larger  pieces,  near 
the  edge,  fit  on  rings,  PRESSING  lightly.  Put  in  pans,  cover  with 
a  towel,  and  place  between  pans  of  cracked  ice,  and  chill  until  paste 
is  stiff.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven,  with  greatest  heat  at  the  bottom, 
25  or  30  minutes.  Turn  frequently  that  it  may  rise  evenly,  with  a 
paper  over  the  top  to  prevent  crust  forming  too  soon.  If  the  oven 
is  not  hot  enough,  the  paste  will  melt  and  spread.  If  it  bakes  too 
fast  on  top,  it  will  not  rise. 

TO  PUT  A  PIE  TOGETHER. 

Roll  the  paste  one-eighth  inch  thick,  and  a  little  larger  than  the 
plate.  Place  the  paste  in  the  plate,  letting  it  shrink  all  it  will.  Lift 
it  from  the  sides  to  fit  it  into  place,  and  press  it  as  little  as  possible. 
Cut  a  narrow  strip  of  paste  and  lay  it  around  the  edge,  moistening  it 
with  water  so  it  will  stick.  Brush  the  top  of  the  bottom  paste  with 
white  of  egg  so  the  filling  will  not  soak  in  and  make  it  heavy.  Put 
in  the  filling  and  cover  with  another  sheet  of  pastry,  having  cut  sev- 
eral slits  to  let  the  steam  escape  in  cooking.  Moisten  the  top  of  the 
strip  so  the  top  crust  will  adhere  to  it.  Where  cooked  fillings  are 
used  it  is  desirable  to  bake  the  crust  separately.  Cover  an  inverted 
pie-plate  with  paste;  prick  thoroughly  with  a  fork  before  baking. 


94  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

114  cups  steamed  and  14  cup  sugar 

strained  squash  V2  tsp.  sait 

14  tsp.  cinnamon,  clove,  or  1  egg 

34  tsp.  lemon  extract  7-8  cup  milk 

Mix  sugar,  salt,  spice  or  extract,  add  squash,  egg,  slightly  beaten, 
and  milk  gradually.  Bake  in  one  crust  in  a  slow  oven.  If  a  richer 
pie  is  desired,  use  one  cup  squash,  one-half  cup  each  of  milk  and  cream, 
and  an  additional  egg  yolk. 

Pumpkin  pie  is  made  same  as  squash  pie.  using  pumpkin  instead 
of  squash.    More  spices  can  be  used  if  desired. 

APPLE  PIE. 

4  or  5  sour  apples  1  tsp.  butter 

1-3  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

14  tsp.  grated  nutmeg  Few  gratings  lemon  rind 

y8  tsp.  salt 

Line  pie-plate  with  paste.  Pare,  core  and  cut  the  apples  into 
eighths,  or  thin  slices,  and  arrange  evenly  in  the  plate.  Mix  sugar, 
nutmeg,  salt,  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind  and  sprinkle  over  apples. 
Dot  over  with  butter.  Wet  edges  of  under  crust,  cover  with  upper 
crust,  and  press  edges  together.  Bake  40  to  45  minutes  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

LEMON  PIE. 

%  cup  sugar  3  egg  yolks 

%  cup  boiling  water  Grated  rind  of  %  lemon 

4  tbsp.  cornstarch  1  tsp.  butter 

3  tbsp.  lemon  juice 

Mix  cornstarch  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly. 
Cook  two  minutes,  add  butter,  egg  yolks,  %  rind  and  juice  of  lemon. 
Line  plate  with  rich  pastry.  Turn  in  mixture,  which  has  been  cooled, 
and  bake  until  pastry  is  well  browned,  or  bake  pastry  first.  Cool 
slightly  and  cover  with  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beat- 
en stiff,  with  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and  one-half  table- 
spoon powdered  sugar,  and  one-half  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Then 
return  to  oven  to  bake  meringue. 

BHUBAKB  PIE. 

1V2  cups  rhubarb  1  egg 

7/8  cup  sugar  2  tbsp.  flour 

Skin  and  cut  stalks  of  rhubarb  in  half-inch  pieces  before  measur- 
ing. Mix  sugar,  flour  and  egg;  add  to  rhubarb,  and  bake  between 
crusts. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  95 

Pan  for  Lemon  Pie. 

Shallow,  1  inch  deep,  perforated  bottom.  Eoll  the  paste  larger 
than  the  plate.  Put  over  bottom  of  plate;  trim,  prick  all  over,  in- 
cluding sides;  prick  quite  close.      Bake.      Eemove  from  pan  at  once. 

MINCE  PIE. 

1  C.  chopped  meat  %  lb.  citron 

3  C.  chopped  apple  y±  C.  grape  jelly 

V/2  C.  brown  sugar  iy2  CJ.  raisins 

1  lemon  (grated  rind  and  juice)       1  C.  meat  liquor 

^4  t.  clove  IV2  t.  cinnamon 

1  T.  candied  orange  peel  1/4  C.  sweet  pickle  liquor 

1-3  C.  molasses  1  orange,  (juice  and  rind) 

1  C.  currants  remove  white  part 

2  T.  salt  1  C.  chopped  suet 
14  t.  mace 

Cook  meat  until  tender,  chop  fine;  add  other  ingredients.  Sim- 
mer mince  meat,  covered,  three  hours.  Fruit  juice  or  cold  coffee  may 
be  used  for  more  moistening.      Add  few  raisins  when  making  pie. 

CHEESE  PIE. 

iy2  C.  cheese  or  cottage  cheese         3  T.  flour 

6  T.  milk  1-3  C.  sugar 

y2  C.  currants  and  citron  1  T.  melted  butter 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  2  eggs 

lemon 

Grate  cheese,  add  sugar  mixed  with  flour,  melted  butter,  rind  and 
juice  of  lemon,  eggs  beaten  slightly,  milk,  and  fruit  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Fill  a  tin  lined  with  pastry  and  bake  until  centre  is  firm. 
Pastry :    1  C.  flour,  4  T.  lard,  y2  t.  salt,  water. 

GRAPE  PIE. 

4  C.  grapes  1  T.  flour 

1  C  sugar  1  t.  butter 

Remove  skins,  boil  pulp  and  rub  through  sieve.  Put  pulp  and 
sugar  with  skins  and  cook  till  skins  are  tender.      Use  when  cold. 

CURRANT  PIE. 

1  C.  currants  1  T.  cornstarch 

1  C.  sugar  2  T.  water 

1  egg 

Cook  currants  in  water  and  sugar.  Use  when  cold.  Beat  egg 
slightly. 


96  THE  WORCESER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

CREAM  PIE. 

1  C.  milk  2  eggs 
Y2  C.  cream  f.  g.  salt 

%  C.  sugar  .  y2  t.  vanilla 

5  T.  flour 

Mix  sugar  and  flour;  add  to  hot  milk  in  double  boiler  slowly, 
stirring  constantly.  Beat  yolks,  add,  flavor  when  cold.  Use  whites 
for  meringue.  Crust:  1  C.  flour,  1  T.  butter,  little  water,  bake 
separately. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD  PIE. 
Bake  crust  first  and  cool.  1  sq.  Baker's  chocolate 

2  C.  milk  3  eggs 

3z4  C.  sugar  i/2  t.  vanilla 

2  T.  cornstarch  1  T.  confectioner's  sugar 

Make  custard.  Cool.  Use  whites  for  meringue.  Sprinkle  with 
confectioner's  sugar,  brown. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

4  eggs  Crust 

2-3  C.  sugar  5-8  C.  pastry  flour 

2y2  C.  milk  14  t.  baking  powder 

1-16  t.   grated  nutmeg  2%  T.  laid 

1-16  t.  salt 
(Medium  sized  plate). 

CREAM  PIE. 

1-3  C.  butter  1  2  C.  milk 

1  C.  sugar  \y2  C.  flour 

2  eggs  21/)  t.  baking  powder 
Directions:  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  well  beaten,  milk  and 

flour  mixed   and  sifted   with   baking  powder.       Bake  in   round   tins. 
Put  cream  filling  between  layers. 

CREAM  PILLING. 

%  C.  milk  (scalded)  ]  -  C.  sugar 

2  T.  cornstarch  1  egg  yolk 

1  t.  vanilla 

Mix  cornstarch  with  sugar,  add  egg  yolk,  mix  thoroughly.  Pour 
over  scalded  milk.      Cook  until  spoon  is  coated  and  thick. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 
1  C.  cranberries  1  C.  raisins 

1  C.  sugar  1  C.  hot  water 

2  T.  cornstarch 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  97 

Cut  cranberries  in  two,  take  out  seeds.  Cut  raisins  fine.  Add 
cornstarch  to  sugar.  Cook  altogether  until  thick.  Cool,  then  add  to 
pie.  Put  mixture  in  tin  lined  with  pastry,  put  on  top  crust  or  small 
strips  put  lengthwise  and  crosswise.       Bake  until  crust  is  brown. 

PIE  CKUST. 
1%  C.  flour  4  T.  lard 

%  t.  salt  Cold  water,  %  C.  or 

1-16  t.  baking  powder  enough  to  moisten 

KHUBAEB  PIE. 
2  cups  rhubarb  1  cup  sugar 

1  egg  2  T.  flour 

Skin  and  cut  rhubarb  in  y2  inch  pieces  before  measuring.  Mix 
sugar,  flour  and  egg;  add  to  rhubarb  and  bake  between  crusts. 

LEMON  PIE. 
1%  cups  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

G  T.  cornstarch  iy2  cups  boiling  water 

Grated  rind  of  y2  lemon  2  t.  butter 

(for  large  sized  plate)  6  T.  lemon  juice 

APEICOT  PIE. 
Line  a  pie-plate  with  pastry,  fill  with  stewed  apricots,  allowing 
1  cup  sugar  to  2  cups  apricot.      Bake  with  two  crusts. 

LEMON  PIE. 
Line  a  plate  with  pastry.      Fill  with  lemon  mixture. 

FILLING. 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon  1  C.  sugar 

1  C.  milk  2  T.  flour 
y4  t.  salt  14  t.  salt 
3  egg  yolks 

Mix  flour  with  sugar,  beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  beat  well,  add 
lemon  juice,  milk  and  salt.  Bake  until  centre  is  firm  as  a  custard, 
cover  with  meringue. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

2  C.  sifted  squash  2%  C.  milk 
2  eggs   (beaten)  1  C.  sugar 

1  t.  salt  1  t.  cinnamon 

14  t.  ginger 
Fill  plate  lined  with  pastry.       Bake  until  centre  is  firm  or  as 
baked  custard. 


98  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIEXCE  SCHOOL. 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 

1  C.  sugar  y2  C.  milk 
1-3  C.  butter                                         1%  C.  flour 

2  eggs  2y2  t.  baking  powder 

Make  as  1  egg  cake.  Bake  in  2  layers.  Serve  with  jelly  between 
layers,  powdered  sugar  on  top,  or  use  cream  filling  between  layers. 

FBEXCH  APPLE  PIE. 

Sliced  apples  to  fill  pie  tin  2  egg  yolks 

y2  C.  to  1  C.  sugar  y2  C.  sugar 

14  t.  nutmeg  1  T.  butter 

2  egg  whites  1  C.  flour 

!/4  C.  confectioner's  sugar  %  C.  milk 

1  t.  baking  powder 
Butter  a  pie  tin  and  fill  with  sliced  apples.  Add  sugar,  sprinkle 
over  nutmeg.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  beaten  egg  yolks,  add  flour 
and  baking  powder,  sifted  together,  alternately  with  milk.  Pour  over 
apples,  bake  till  they  are  soft.  Turn  into  a  plate  with  apples  on  top, 
cover  with  meringue  made  of  2  egg  whites.      Brown  in  oven. 

CBEAM  PASTKY  PIE. 

1  C.  milk  y2  C.  sugar 
y2  C.  cream                                           4  T.  flour 
y8  t.  salt                                              2  egg  yolks 
y2  t.  vanilla 

Scald  milk,  mix  flour,  salt,  sugar,  together.  Beat  egg  yolks 
slightly,  add  to  Hour  and  sugar,  pour  scalded  milk  over  egg  mixture, 
cook  until  very  thick.  Flavor  to  taste.  Cool,  then  fill  plate  lined 
with  pastry  that  has  been  previously  baked.       Cover  with  meringue. 

MEKINGUE. 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff  Cover  pie,  bake  in  slow  oven 

2  T.  powdered  sugar  8  minutes 


Meats 

DISSECTION  OF  A  BEEF  CREATURE. 

(Demonstration  at  the  Worcester  Market.) 

Hind  quarter 

The  hind  quarter  is  cut  in  the  following  order: 

1st— flank 
2nd — loin 
3rd — rump 
4th — round 

The  flank  is  a  long,  comparatively  thin,  layer  of  meat  and  fat. 
It  is  used  for  corned  beef,  pot  roast  and  stew. 

From  the  rump  are  obtained  the  short  rump  steak,  the  fillet,  and 
the  face  of  rump  for  boiling.  The  fillet  corresponds  to  the  tenderloin 
piece  in  the  sirloin  cut. 

Whole  Round  of  Beef 

The  hock,  or  shank,  is  used  for  soup.  In  the  round  steak  the 
upper  or  top  round  is  tender;  and  the  bottom  round  is  tough.  The 
aitch  bone  is  used  for  stews,  corned  beef,  and  pot  roast. 

Loin 

The  kidneys  are  used  for  stews.  They  are  found  imbedded  in  a 
large  thick  mass  of  suet,  and  are  also  covered  with  a  thick  layer  of 
suet.  Suet  is  a  form  of  fat  which  is  much  harder  and  firmer  than 
the  usual  fat.  Butterine  is  made  out  of  suet.  It  is  also  used  for 
suet  puddings. 

The  tenderloin  is  the  best  part  of  the  creature  for  steak;  the  sir- 
loin steak  is  next  in  quality.  Porter-house  steak  includes  both  tender- 
loin and  sirloin. 

The  skirt  is  not  a  very  good  piece,  and  is  generally  used  for  mak- 
ing Hamburg  steak. 

Of  the  thirteen  ribs  in  the  creature,  five  are  left  on  the  loin  cut. 

A  loin  roast 

Many  people  prefer  to  buy  a  roast  of  beef  without  the  centre 
bone,  so  it  is  often  prepared  for  market  with  that  bone  removed. 

The  sides  are  skewered  together,  inserting  skewers  every  four  or 
five  inches  all  along,  so  as  to  hold  it  firmly  together.  Then  it  is  tied 
round  with  string  at  even  intervals. 

This  makes  a  nice  round  roast,  and  as  it  is  in  one  long  roll,  it  is 


100         THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

much  easier  for  the  market  man  to  measure  off  any  desired  quantity 
and  to  cut  without  the  trouble  of  interfering  bones. 

The  Beginning  of  the  Fore-Quarter 

(Or  the  back  of  the  fore-quarter).      Of  the  thirteen  ribs  in  the  crea- 
ture eight  are  left  on  the  fore-quarter  cut. 

The  first  five  cuts  are  cut  for  rib-roast;  the  last  two  are  chuck 
rib  cuts  for  roasting  and  steaks.  All  the  cuts  have  only  one  rib  each 
excepting  the  first  one;  this  has  two  ribs  and  is  also  the  best  cut  off 
the  creature's  back. 

The  shoulder  blade  is  used  as  a  boiling  piece. 

The  neck  is  used  for  stew  and  for  mince-meat. 

Beginning  with  the  first  rib  roast  cut,  the  meat  becomes  poorer 
and  cheaper  as  it  goes  towards  the  neck ;  the  bones  are  harder  and 
thicker,  too,  as  they  go  towards  the  neck. 

The  Plate  or  Rattle 

(The  other  part  of  fore-quarter). 

This  is  the  part  of  the  fore-quarter  which  lies  below  or  under- 
neath the  back. 

The  shin  is  the  same  as  the  hock,  excepting  that  it  is  the  front 
leg,  while  the  hock  is  the  hind  leg.      The  shin  is  good  for  soups. 

The  sticker  or  sticking  piece  makes  nice  corned  beef. 

In  fact,  all  the  parts  of  the  rattle  are  used  for  corning,  as  it  is  a 
cheaper  grade  of  meat. 

There  are  two  parts  to  the  brisket:  The  navel-end  and  the  butt- 
end.  The  long  bone,  or  rather  series  of  short  bones,  running  through 
the  whole  brisket  should  be  removed  and  thrown  away.  It  is  not 
even  good  for  soups. 

CUTS  OF  BEEF. 

Tip  of  sirloin  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
Middle  of  sirloin  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
First  cut  of  sirloin  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
Back  of  rump  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
Middle  of  rump  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
Face  of-  rump  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
Aitch  bone  for  roasts,  stews  and  soup. 
Lower  part  of  round  for  stews  and  pies. 
Top  part  of  round  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
Vein  piece  of  round  for  roasts  and  steaks. 
Poor  part  of  round  for  stews,  beef  tea. 
Poor  part  of  vein  for  stews,  beef  tea. 
Shank  for  soup. 
Boneless  flank  for  corning. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  101 

Flank  with  bones  for  corning. 

First  cut  of  ribs  for  roast  and  steaks. 

Chuck  rib  for  roasting  and  steaks. 

Neck  for  stews  and  soups. 

Eattleran  for  corning  and  stews. 

Second  cut  rattleran  for  corning. 

Brisket  for  corning.       (a)     Navel  end.       (b)     Butt  end. 

Shin  for  beef  tea  and  soup. 

Tail  for  soups. 

Sticking  piece. 


BEEF 

FORE  QUARTER         HIND  QUARTER 


-10 


CCTS. 

How  Cooked. 

1. 

Tip  of  sirloin. 

Roasts  and  steaks. 

o 

Middle  of  sirloin. 

».        >>         ?) 

•  > 
o. 

First  cut  of  sirloin. 

?>                    ?>                    )> 

4. 

Back  of  rump. 

>>                    >>                    » 

5. 

Middle  of  rump. 

?>                    J?                    J? 

G. 

Face  of  rump. 

"        J?                    ?>                    J? 

7. 

Aitch  bone. 

Cheap  roasts,  stews,  soup 

8. 

Lower  part  of  round. 

Stew,  meat  pies 

8a. 

Top  of  round. 

Roast  and  steak 

9. 

Vein  piece  of  round. 

Roast  and  steak 

10. 

Poor  part  of  round. 

Stew,  beef-tea 

11. 

Poor  part  of  vein  piece. 

Stew,  beef-tea 

12. 

Shank. 

Soup  or  cheap  stew 

13. 

Boneless  flank. 

Corned  beef 

14. 

Flank  with  bones. 

Corned  beef 

15c. 

First  cut  of  ribs. 

Roasting  and  steaks 

15a. 

Chuck  rib. 

Roasting  and  steaks 

15b. 

Neck. 

Stews,  soups,  Hamburg  steak 

16. 

Rattle-ran. 

Corning — stews 

17. 

Second  cut  rattle-ran. 

Corning 

18. 

Brisket. 

Finest  for  corning 

19. 

Shin. 

Beef-tea — soup 

20. 

Tail. 

Soup 

21. 

Sticking  piece. 

Mincemeat 

Other  parts  used  for  food 

LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  103 

Brains  Stewed,  scalloped,  croquettes 

Tongue  Boiled  or  braised,  fresh  or 

corned 
Heart  Stuffed  and  braised 

Liver  Broiled  or  fried 

Kidneys  Stewed  or  sauted 

Tail  Soup 

Suet  Used   as  shortening — kidney 

suet  best 
Tripe  Broiled  or  fried  in  batter 

TIME-TABLE  FOR  ROASTING. 

Beef — 12  to  15  min.  to  lb. 
Mutton — 15  min.  to  lb. 
Lamb — 15  min.  to  lb. 
Veal — 20  min.  to  lb. 
Venison — 15  min.  to  lb. 


VEAL 


CUTS. 

1.  Head. 

2.  Neck. 

3.  Sticking  piece. 

4.  Shoulder. 

5.  Back. 

6.  Breast. 

7.  Loin  (Best  end.) 

8.  Loin  (Bone  end.) 

9.  Flank. 

10.  Fillet  and  cutlets. 

11.  Knuckle. 

12  and  13.     Feet. 


How  Cooked. 
Soups  and  entrees 
Stews — stock  pies 
Stews 

Boasted,  baked,  braised 
Braised 

Boasted  or  baked 
Boasted — chops 
Boasted — chops 
Boiled  roast  or  boiled 
Fillet,  roasted  cutlets, 

fried  or  baked 
Stews — stock  pies 
Calves'  foot  jelly, 

gelatine 


PORK 


CUTS. 

How  Cooked. 

1. 

Head. 

Souse  or  head  cheese 

2. 

Neck. 

Salted  and  pickled 

3. 

Shoulder. 

Cured  or  sold  fresh  for  pork 
steak,  smoked 

4. 
5. 
6. 

Loin   (Eib  end.) 
Loin  (Bone  end.) 
Breast. 

Roasts  or  chops 
Roasts  or  chops 
Salted  or  pickled — made  into 
sausages 

7. 
8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 

Flank. 
Ham. 

Ham  (Butt  end.)     ) 
Ham  (Hock  end.)  f 
Feet. 

Used  for  sausages 
Smoked  or  sold  fresh  for  pork 
steak 

Fried  or  baked 
Pickled 

12. 

Feet. 

Tickled 

MUTTON 


CUTS. 

1.  Head. 

2.  Neck. 

3.  Shoulder. 

4.  Back. 

5.  Breast. 

6.  Loin  (Best  end.) 

7.  Loin  (Bone  end.) 

8.  Leg. 

9.  Flank. 

Heart,  liver,  kidneys  are  used 
as  those  of  calf.    Less  in 
price. 


Ho w  Cooked. 
Soups — stews 
Cheapest  for  stew,  broths. 

casserole  cooking 
Baking  or  roasting 
Baking  or  roasting, 

French  chops 
Cheap  stews 
Loin  chops 
Baked 

Boiled,  baked  or  roasted 
Braised,  baked 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  107 

SHORT  TALK  ON  MEATS. 

BEEF  TONGUE— should  be  nice  and  red  if  fresh.  It  should 
also  bear  the  government  stamp,  which  shows  that  it  has  been  prop- 
erly inspected. 

A  beef  tongue,  in  healthy  condition,  has  a  portion  of  its  surface 
covered  with  papillae;  this  is  a  rough  surface  made  up  of  tactile 
corpuscles  or  nerve-endings,  and  extends  1-3  of  the  length  of  the 
whole  tongue.  The  root  of  the  tongue  is  very  thick  and  is  bulb-like 
in  form. 

The  average  weight  of  a  beef  tongue  is  four  to  five  pounds. 

Most  beef  tongues  on  the  market  have  been  cured  in  saltpeter. 
It  is  not  easy  to  get  a  fresh  one  (i.  e.  from  a  freshly  killed  creature), 
but  it  is  better  and  less  expensive  to  do  so  if  possible. 

Also  try  to  get  a  tongue  which  has  not  been  cooked.  The  cooked 
tongues  are  sold  in  delicatessen  shops,  and  of  course  are  more  expen- 
sive. 

Wash  the  tongue  with  a  brush,  using  cold  water;  NEVER  allow 
it  to  soak. 

NEVER  prick  it  in  cooking.  Cook  the  tongue  until  tender,  i.  e: 
when  the  outer  skin  begins  to  peal.  Always  skin  the  tongue  when 
HOT. 

Boil  it  rapidly  the  first  15  minutes  in  boiling  water,  then  boil  it 
slowly  for  4  or  5  hours. 

The  price  of  beef  tongue  ranges  from  15c  to  24c  a  lb. 

In  class  we  prepared  it  as  a  jellied  tongue,  i.  e.  set  in  aspic  jelly. 

BONES  FOB  ASPIC  JELLY,  etc. :  Chicken  bones  or  veal  bones 
are  used  to  make  aspic  jelly;  anything  that  will  make  a  good,  solid, 
white  stock  may  be  used. 

One  must  get  good,  clean,  healthy,  fresh  bones,  which  have  been 
cut  or  sawed  so  as  to  expose  the  marrow.  This  latter  is  very  im- 
portant, as  it  is  quite  essential  that  one  should  get  the  gelatinous 
properties  contained  in  the  marrow. 

Wash  the  bones  with  a  brush  and  COLD  water. 

Put  the  bones  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water  to  which  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt  has  been  added.  Simmer  (180°  Fahrenheit)  for  4  to  5,  or  6  to 
7  hours.  Keep  bones  covered  with  water,  and  also  keep  the  kettle 
covered. 

Clarify,  strain,  etc. 

This  will  also  make  good  stock  for  soups,  as  lettuce  soup  and 
other  white  soups. 

5  lbs.  of  veal  bones  were  used  in  class  for  aspic  jelly.  Veal  bones 
are  about  9c  a  lb. 

CHINE  ROAST  OF  PORK:  This  corresponds  to  the  sirloin  of 
heel      The  Quality  is  tested  as  follows :      If  the  meat  is  of  fine  grain 


108         THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

and  does  not  resist  to  the  touch  of  the  finger,  it  is  in  perfectly  good 
condition.  Some  pork  is  too  hard  and  firm;  hence  it  resists  the 
touch  of  the  finger  and  by  this  test  is  discovered  to  be  poor  meat. 

The  butcher  should  always  separate  or  cut  the  vertebrae  apart 
for  you  with  a  hatchet.  Always  insist  upon  this,  or  you  will  ex- 
perience great  difficulty  in  carving  the  meat. 

Never  salt  a  roast  before  cooking. 

Wash  it  with  a  brush,  but  do  not  let  it  soak. 

Place  it  on  a  trivet  in  a  dripping  pan,  baste  it,  etc. 

A  roast  of  4%  lbs.  was  used  in  class,  and  it  cost  14c  a  lb. 

Salt  as  soon  as  done  while  hot. 

Sausages:  There  is  a  government  inspector  as  well  as  a  city 
inspector  for  all  meats ;  so  sausages  are  thoroughly  inspected.  The 
Deerfoot  brand  is  considered  the  best  and  is  fresh  and  pure.  Price, 
25c  a  lb.  The  outer  covering  of  sausages  is  made  from  the  intestinal 
tubes  of  the  creature.  These  have  to  be  thoroughly  cleaned  and  in- 
spected before  the  meat  is  put  into  them.  The  meat  is  also  inspected. 
The  meat  is  blown  or  forced  into  the  tube.  Sausages  are  sometimes 
made  at  home  of  chopped  pork  highly  seasoned,  and  instead  of  putting 
them  in  the  skin-like  tubes,  they  are  wrapped  in  cheese  cloth. 

Cooked  Ham :  Costs  30c  a  lb.  It  is  best  if  cut  from  the  chine, 
for  in  that  cut  there  are  no  sinews  running  through  the  meat.  It  is 
clearer  meat,  though,  of  course,  it  has  some  fat.  Ham  from  a  smoked 
shoulder  is  not  as  good. 

Beef  Suet:  Is  a  kind  of  fat  of  a  yellow  color;  it  is  very  hard 
and  firm  and  is  stearic  fat,  containing  stearic  acid.  It  has  a  thin 
connective  tissue  or  membrane  running  all  through  it.  Never  re- 
move this  tissue  uless  it  is  very  coarse,  as,  for  instance,  the  outside 
covering.  Suet  costs  from  4c  to  8c  a  lb.  It  is  used  for  mince  meat, 
steamed  puddings,  etc. 

Bacon :  The  Deerfoot  product  is  the  best.  Bacon  should  have 
a  bit  of  streak  of  lean  in  it,  and  should  have  a  delicate,  ''fatty,  smoked 
odor"  when  fresh.      Bacon  costs  about  14c  to  25c  per  lb. 

Pigs'  Liver :  It  is  an  old-fashioned  and  erroneous  idea  that  pigs' 
liver  is  not  good  eating.  It  really  has  a  better  flavor  than  other 
liver.      It  is  farther  away  from  the  wild. 

Beef  liver  is  coarser  than  pigs'  liver.  When  purchasing  liver  of 
any  kind,  it  is  best  to  get  an  inside  cut,  so  as  to  get  less  of  the  skin 
or  connective  tissue. 

Liver  should  not  look  purple;  it  should  be  a  reddish  brown  if 
fresh,  but  not  too  brown. 

First,  plunge  it  in  boiling  water  and  let  it  soak  15  minutes.  Skin 
if  necessary.  Then  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  bacon-fat  and 
keep  the  frying  pan  covered  throughout  the  cooking,  except,  of  course, 
when  turning  the  liver. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  109 

Lamb  Chops :  Range  in  price  from  lie  to  38c  a  lb.  The  older 
mutton  is  9c  and  10c  a  lb.  Both  lamb  and  mutton  chops  should  be 
bright  red,  if  fresh. 

The  excessive  fat  on  the  outside  of  these  chops  should  be  re- 
moved, because  it  is  "woolly"  and  not  good  eating. 

Small  chops  are  nice  and  tender.  If  one  removes  the  bone  from 
the  small,  thin  chops,  they  will  be  found  nice  to  roll  and  skewer  into 
a  circular  shape.  They  are  good  prepared  in  crumbs,  i.  e.  dipped  in 
egg  and  crumbs  as  for  croquettes  and  fried  in  deep  hot  fat  about  5 
to  8  minutes. 

BROILED  MEATS. 
BEEKSTEAK. 

Time — 1-inch  thick,   8  minutes;   iy2  inches  thick,   10   minutes. 

Trim  a  steak,  removing  superfluous  fat.  Make  the  surface  flat 
by  striking  with  the  broad  blade  of  knife.  Heat  the  broiler  very  hot, 
rub  with  a  piece  of  the  fat.  Place  the  steak  on  the  broiler  with  the 
fat  edge  toward  the  handle.  Broil  over  a  clear  coal  fire  or  under  a 
gas  flame,  turning  every  ten  counts  until  perfectly  seared.  Then  turn 
occasionally  until  clone.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  season  with  butter, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Sauces  served  with  broiled  steak — Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter,  Mush- 
room, Tomato. 

MUTTON  AND  LAMB  CHOPS. 

Trim  the  chops  into  the  English,  French,  or  boned,  and  rolled 
forms,  and  broil,  following  the  directions  for  steak. 

Green  peas,  string  beans  or  any  small  vegetable  may  be  served 
on  the  same  dish,  placed  in  the  center  of  the  circle  or  around  the 
chops.  Mashed  potato  or  spinach  may  be  pressed  into  form  or  a  circle 
and  the  chops  rested  against  it,  the  bones  pointing  up  or  slanting. 
Place  paper  frills  on  the  ends  of  the  bones  to  improve  their  appear- 
ance. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

Time — Rib  roast,  rare,  8-10  minutes  per  pound. 

Rib  roast,  well  done,  18-20  minutes  per  pound. 

Rolled  roast,  rare,  10-12  minutes  per  pound. 

Rolled  roast,  well  done,  20-22  minutes  per  pound. 

Wipe  the  beef  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  cold  water,  and  place  on  a 
rack  in  a  dripping  pan.  Dredge  with  flour  and  place  in  a  hot  oven, 
that  the  surface  may  be  quickly  seared,  about  15  minutes,  then  re- 
duce the  heat  and  bake  slowly  until  done,  basting  every  ten  minutes. 
The  salt  and  pepper  can  be  added  to  the  basting  in  preference  to  rub- 


110         THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

bing  it  over  the  meat  before  dredging  with  flour.  If  there  is  danger 
of  burning  the  flour  add  a  little  water.  Serve  a  rib  roast  standing 
on  the  ribs  and  cut  the  slice  in  line  with  the  rib.  Serve  a  rolled 
roast  with  the  cut  side  up,  and  cut  in  slices  horizontally. 

LAKDED  FILLET  OF  BEEF. 
Time — 20-30  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  The  tenderloin  of  beef  is 
the  fillet,  and  is  taken  from  the  under  side  of  the  sirloin  cut.  Wipe, 
remove  fat  and  veins  and  any  sinewy  portions.  Skewer  into  good 
shape  and  lard  according  to  directions  for  lardoons.  Place  on  a 
rack,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  place  pieces 
of  pork  in  bottom  of  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes,  bast- 
ing frequently.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  gravy,  using  2  T.  butter,  2  T. 
flour  and  a  cup  of  gravy  or  stock;  add  a  cup  of  drained  mushrooms. 
Serve  the  sauce  around  the  fillet  with  the  mushrooms  top  side  up,  or 
serve  sauce  separately.  In  carving,  cut  the  fillet  diagonally  instead 
of  straight  across. 

KOLLED  FLANK  OF  BEEF. 

2-4  lbs.  flank  1  ssp.  each  thyme,  marjoram 

1  cup  of  fine  crumbs  or  sage 
granulated  wheat  shred                ^  tsp.  onion  juice 

2  T.  chopped  salt  pork  1  egg 

y2  tsp.  salt  Hot  water 

y2  ssp.  pepper 

Wipe  flank  and  remove  skin,  membrane  and  extra  fat.  Pound 
and  trim  until  of  uniform  thickness,  making  a  stuffing  of  the  re- 
maining ingredients,  moistening  with  hot  water  until  moist  enough 
to  spread  over  the  meat.  Boll  and  tie  or  skewer  securely.  Brown 
the  entire  surface  by  placing  it  in  a  hot  frying  pan  with  a  little  salt 
pork.  Place  on  a  trivet  in  a  deep  granite  pan  and  surround  with 
vegetables  (14  cup  each  of  carrot,  turnip,  onion  and  celery)  ;  add 
boiling  water  to  reach  nearly  to  the  top  of  trivet.  Cover  closely,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven  four  hours,  basting  every  half  hour;  or  cook  on 
top  of  the  stove,  keeping  the  water  simmering.  Serve  with  horse- 
radish or  brown  sauce. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

Time — 15  minutes  to  the  pound. 

Wipe  meat,  place  in  a  kettle  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Bring 
quickly  to  the  boiling  point,  boil  five  minutes  and  skim.  Set  on  the 
back  of  range  and  simmer  until  tender.  When  half  done  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt.  Thirty  minutes  before  removing  the  meat  add 
some  soup  vegetables,  to  give  flavor  and  enrich  the  stock.  Cut  the 
carrot  and  turnip  in  half-inch  thick  slices  and  stamp  with  a  fluted 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  Ill 

cutter  so  the  rims  will  be  scalloped.  Place  the  meat  in  a  hot  dish 
and  rub  lightly  over  it  enough  of  the  white  sauce  (to  be  used  for  the 
caper  sauce)  to  make  the  surface  white  and  smooth.  Sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  or  capers.  Take  the  sliced  vegetables,  cut  a  hole  in 
the  centre  and  string  them  alternately  on  the  bone  which  will  pro- 
trude at  each  end.  This  will  give  the  effect  of  skewers;  conceal  the 
bone  and  make  the  dish  more  presentable. 

CROWN  BOAST  OF  MUTTON. 
Have  the  butcher  cut  a  full  loin,  split  the  bone  between  the  chops, 
trim  the  rib  bones  as  for  French  chops  and  chop  them  off  to  a  uni- 
form length,  then  roll  the  loin  backward  into  a  circle,  and  tie  se- 
curely. Cover  the  bones  with  heavy  paper  so  they  will  not  burn 
while  cooking.  Baste  frequently  while  roasting  and  allow  nine  min- 
utes to  the  pound.  Serve  with  Saratoga  or  other  fancy  fried  pota- 
toes in  the  basket-like  top  formed  by  the  bones.  Place  a  frill  of 
paper  on  each  bone. 

BEAISED  BEEF. 
Cuts — Lower  round,  face  of  rump,  shin  if  meaty. 
3  to  5  lbs.  beef  14  t.  pepper 

2  thin  slices  salt  pork  1  T.  flour 

y2  t.  peppercorns  %  C.  each,  diced  carrot, 

3  C.  hot  H20  turnip,  onion,   celery 
%  t.  salt 

Directions — Try  out  pork,  remove  scraps,  wipe  meat,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper;  dredge  with  flour.  Brown  all  sides  in  hot  fat 
of  pork.  Do  not  pierce.  Place  on  trivet  in  deep  granite  pan.  Add 
vegetables  and  hot  H20.  Cover  and  bake  slowly  4  hours.  Baste 
every  half  hour.  Turn  after  2d  hour.  Keep  the  liquid  below  the 
boiling  point  at  all  times.  Serve  with  horseradish  sauce  or  sauce 
made  from  liquor  in  braising  pan. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

3  lbs.  of  veal  1  tsp.  salt 

y2  lb.  ham  or  V2  tsp.  pepper 

%  lb.  salt  pork  1  tsp.  onion  juice 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  ground  mace 

1  cup  fine  bread  or  shredded  1  tsp.  alspice 

wheat  crumbs 
Chop  the  veal  and  ham  very  fine,  or  put  through  a  meat  chopper; 

mix  into  it  the  other  ingredients,  and  mould  into  a  loaf;  baste  it  with 

beaten  egg  and  sprinkle  it  with  crumbs. 


112  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours,  basting  it  several  times  with 
melted  butter  and  water.       Serve  cold. 

CASSEROLE  OF  EICE  AND  MEAT. 
Line  a  mould,  slightly  buttered,  with  steamed  rice.  Fill  the 
centre  with  two  cups  of  cold,  chopped,  fine  cooked  mutton  seasoned 
highly  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  celery  salt,  onion  juice  and  lemon 
juice,  then  add  one-fourth  cup  cracker  crumbs,  one  egg  slightly  beaten 
and  enough  hot  stock  or  water  to  moisten.  Cover  meat  with  rice, 
cover  rice  with  buttered  paper  to  keep  out  moisture  while  steaming, 
and  steam  45  minutes.  Serve  on  a  platter  surrounded  with  tomato 
sauce.    Veal  or  chicken  may  be  used  instead  of  mutton. 

SAUCES. 

For  proportions  see  list  of  White  Sauces.  No.  2  or  3  answers  for 
most  meat  and  fish  sauces. 

The  liquid  may  be  milk,  cream,  water,  white  broth,  soup  stock  or 
vegetable  extract. 

Method  of  mixing  as  in  white  sauce.  Herbs,  spices,  onions,  etc., 
are  usually  heated  in  the  liquid  and  strained  out  before  thickening- 
process.  Mushrooms,  capers,  etc.,  and  sometimes  chopped  herbs  are 
served  in  the  sauce. 

SEASONINGS. 

Herbs:     Thyme,  sweet  marjoram,  summer  savory,  parsley. 
Spices:       Pepper,  cayenne,  paprika,  cloves,  nutmeg,  bay-leaf. 
Acid  flavors:       Lemon,  vinegar. 

FRIED  TRIPE. 
Put  tripe  into  boiling  water,  let  stand  15  min.       Drain  and  dry, 
crumb,  egg  and  crumb,  fry  in  deep  fat. 

LIVER  ROLLS. 

1  lb.  liver  1  T.  flour 

1  onion,  small,  1  sprig  parsley 

14  lb.  bacon  1-3  t.  salt. 

Cut  liver  in  thin  slices,  cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  15 
min.  Remove  tough  skin  and  wipe  dry.  Put  one  piece  bacon  on 
each  slice  liver,  roll  up,  fasten  with  tooth-pick,  dredge  with  flour. 
Put  remainder  of  bacon  in  frying  pan  and  fry  out  all  fat.  Brown 
rolls  in  this.  Place  rolls  in  stew  pan.  Mix  flour  with  fat  in  pan, 
add  2  cups  water,  add  salt,  onion  and  parsley.  Pour  over  roll. 
Cover  and  simmer  one  hour. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  113 

BLANQUETTE  OF  LAMB. 

Cut  cooked  lamb  into  cubes.  Make  a  white  sauce  of: 
1  cup  milk  14  t.  salt 

4  T.  flour  4  T.  butter 

1-16  t.  mace  y8  t.  pepper 

1  cup  stock 

1  T.  Mushroom  catsup  or  other  suitable  table  sauce. 
Sprinkle  parsley  on  top. 

PLANK  STEAK. 

Wash  y2  cup  butter,  drain  and  dry.  Add  1  T.  green  pepper,  1 
T.  parsley,  %  T.  onion,  1  t.  lemon  juice.  Spread  1-3  of  mixture  in  cen- 
tre of  plank.  Arrange  border  of  duchess  potatoes  close  to  edge  of 
plank.  Pan  broil  porterhouse  steak,  cut  1%  inch  thick,  4  min. 
Remove  to  plank,  spread  with  remaining  butter  and  bake  to  finish 
rest  of  cooking.  Garnish  with  mushrooms,  sauted  in  butter.  Stuffed 
tomatoes,  green  peas,  stuffed  peppers  are  also  used  for  garnish. 

DUCHESS  POTATOES. 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  %  t.  pepper 
1  egg                                                     2  T.  butter 
1/2  t.  salt 

SAVORY  DISH. 
Use  left-over  meat  of  any  kind.  Make  white  sauce,  using  1  cup 
milk,  3  T.  flour,  2  T.  butter,  14  t.  salt,  %  t.  pepper,  1-16  t.  paprika. 
Add  at  end,  y2  green  pepper,  pounding  to  a  paste,  with  1  t.  parsley, 
%  t.  onion.  Use  1  cup  white  sauce  to  2  cups  meat.  Add  sauce  to 
chopped  meat.  Shape  into  cutlets.  Crumb,  egg  and  crumb.  Fry 
in  deep  fat.      Garnish  with  parsley. 

COTTAGE  PIE. 

Butter  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  layer  of  mashed  potato,  add 
thick  layer  of  meat  cut  in  small  pieces,  moisten  with  gravy,  cover 
with  thin  layer  of  potato.      Bake  in  hot  oven  to  brown  potato. 

VEAL  AND  MACARONI. 


1  lb.  veal 

macaroni 

14  cup  bread  crumbs 

1/2  t.  salt 

2  eggs 

%  t.  pepper 

!/4  cup  minced  ham 

1-16  t.  paprika 

2  t.  lemon  peel,  grated 

114  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Chop  veal  fine,  mix  with  ground  bread  crumbs,  ham,  seasonings, 
lemon  peel.  Moisten  with  stock;  add  eggs  well  beaten.  Line  but- 
tered mould  with  cooked  macaroni.  Mix  a  little  with  the  meat.  Fill 
mould,  pressing  tightly ;  cover  and  steam  40  min.  Turn  out  on  plate 
and  serve  with  white  sauce. 


EOAST  PIG. 

Select  pig  3  to  5  weeks  old.  Clean  well.  Stuff  with  mashed  po- 
tatoes or  stale  bread,  seasoned  with  sage,  salt,  pepper,  onion  and 
celery.  If  bread  is  used,  moisten  with  warm  water,  melted  butter 
and  one  egg.      Stuff  and  sew. 

Skewer  fore  legs  forward  and  hind  legs  backward.  Hub  over 
with  butter.  Place  in  dripping  pan;  add  a  little  water.  Moderate 
oven.      Bake  2  or  4  hours. 

Arrange  in  bed  of  parsley  and  celery  leaves,  tuft  of  cauliflower 
in  mouth,  garland  of  parsley,  or  cranberries  around  neck. 

BEEF  STEW. 

Aitchbone,  5  lbs.  Carrot  cut  in  cubes 

Turnip  2-3  cup  4  cups  potatoes 

y2  onion  sliced 
Cut  meat  into  small  cubes.  Fry  out  fat  and  brown  in  it  sliced 
onion,  add  meat,  and  brown.  Kinse  frying  pan;  add  liquor  to  meat. 
Cover  closely,  boil  5  min.;  simmer  till  tender.  After  one  hour  skim 
off  fat;  add  carrot  and  turnip.  Parboil  potatoes  and  add  to  stew 
when  nearly  done.  Save  bones  and  put  in  pan  with  cold  water.  This 
liquor  may  be  thickened  with  *4  cup  flour. 

DUMPLINGS. 

Mix  2  cups  flour,  4  t.  baking  powder,  y2  t.  salt,  %  cup  milk,  if 
dough  is  cut,  or  1  cup  milk,  if  dropped  from  spoon.  Cook  closely- 
covered  15  min.       Serve  around  stew  on  hot  platter. 

HAM  TIMBALES. 

1  T.  butter  2  cups  cooked  ham 

1  T.  flour  chopped  fine 
y2  cup  milk  2  egg  whites 

2  egg  yolks 

Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  milk.  Add  ham.  Mix 
well.  Add  yolks  well  beaten,  mix,  fold  in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Fill  six  custard  cups  2-3  full.  Place  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  20 
minutes.      Serve  with  cream  sauce. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  115 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

1  T,  butter  1  cup  milk 

1  T.  flour  y2  cup  cream 

i/4  t.  salt  y8  t.  pepper 

SALT  PORK,  COUNTRY  STYLE. 

Select  clear,  fat  pork,  cut  in  1-3  inch  slices.  Cover  these  with 
boiling  water.  Drain.  Wipe  with  cloth.  Dip  one  at  a  time  in 
flour,  put  at  once  into  hot  frying  pan,  let  cook  slowly  until  well 
browned,  then  turn ;  brown  on  other  side ;  drain  on  soft  paper.  Drain 
off  most  of  water,  add  Lyonnaise  potatoes  and  brown.      Serve  hot. 

Apples  may  be  sliced,  cored  and  fried  in  fat  in  place  of  potatoes. 

PIGEON  PIE. 

Clean  and  truss  6  pigeons  or  squabs.  Put  in  a  kettle  and  nearly 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Add  y2  t.  of  pepper  corns,  1  onion  stuck 
with  6  cloves,  8  slices  carrot,  2  sprigs  parsley,  2  stalks  celery. 

Cook  slowly  till  tender.  Remove  squabs,  strain  liquor  and 
thicken  with  butter  and  flour  cooked.  Remove  meat  from  birds. 
Cover  with  thickened  sauce.  Put  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover 
with  tea  biscuit  batter.      Bake  30  min.  in  hot  oven. 


MOULDED  CHICKEN  OR  VEAL. 

1  cup  chopped  meat  1%  T.  butter 

i/2  T.  salt  %  cup  miik 

iy2  T.  sugar  %  cup  vinegar 

1%  T.  flour  %  t.  gelatine 

1  t.  mustard  V±  cup  water 

2  egg  yolks 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  yolks,  butter,  milk  and  vinegar. 
Cook  till  mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens. 
Add  dissolved  gelatine.  Strain,  add  to  meat.  Fill  indivdual  moulds, 
chill;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


TRIPE  RAGOUT. 

1  lb.  tripe 

1  C.  celerv  cubes 

%  onion 

(i/2  inch) 

1  T.  beef  fat 

1  C.  strained  tomatoes 

i/2  t.  salt 

dash  cayenne 

Cut  tripe  in  y2  inch  strips.  Slice  onion  and  cook  in  beef  fat. 
Add  to  tripe  and  cook  15  min.  Add  tomatoes,  celery  and  seasonings, 
cover  and  simmer  y2  hour.       Serve  with  French  potato  balls. 


116  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

BEEADED  VEAL. 

Put  cutlets  in  frying  pan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  2  bay 
leaves,  3  pepper-corns,  slice  onion.  Cook,  covered,  1  hour.  Drain, 
cool.       Crumb,  egg  and  crumb.      Fry  in  deep  fat. 

BOILED  HAM. 

Soak  ham  over  night  in  cold  water.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Bemove  thick  skin,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  put  in 
oven  long  enough  to  brown  crumbs. 

Cloves  may  be  put  in  ham  and  baked  20  min. 

BBOILED  FEENCH  LAMB  CHOPS. 

Bibs  of  lamb  which  have  the  bone  scraped  clean  to  bone  are 
called  French  chops. 

Wipe  chops  with  damp  cloth,  oil  broiler,  place  on  chops.  Broil 
8  min. 

FILIPINO  BEEF. 
2  lb.  beef  3  T.  melted  butter 

2  slices  salt  pork  1  green  pepper 

2  slices  onion  y2  C.  bread  crumbs 

y2  t.  salt  1  egg 

Vs  t.  pepper 
Put  beef  through  meat  chopper,  together  with  pork,  onion,  green 
pepper.  Add  bread  crumbs,  egg,  butter  and  seasonings.  Shape 
into  long  roll,  cover  with  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  pan,  surround  with 
y^  inch  water.  Bake  1%  hours,  or  until  meat  is  done.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

MEAT  LOAF. 

2  lbs.  beef  1  t.  onion  juice 

%  C.  chopped  suet  1  t.  salt 

2  sprigs  parsley  14.  t.  pepper 

1  beaten  egg  Crumbs 

Grind  meat,  chop  suet,  mince  parsley.  Mix  ingredients  in  or- 
der given,  omitting  crumbs.  Shape  in  roll.  Dredge  with  flour  or 
roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Place  in  hot  oven  to  sear  over  them,  reduce 
heat,  bake  30  to  35  min.,  serve  with  brown  gravy  or  tomato  sauce. 

CANNELON  OF  BEEF  AND  MACAKONI. 

2  lbs.  beef — from  round  %  t.  onion  juice 
1  T.  chopped  parsley                           y8  t.  mace 

1  t.  salt  1  egg  beaten 

Vk  t.  pepper  1-3  C.  bread  crumbs 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  117 

Grind  meat  several  times  to  get  it  fine.  Add  other  ingredients, 
soak  bread  crumbs  in  cold  water  15  min.,  drain  and  add.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  shape  in  roll.  Bake  30  niin.,  or  until  done.  Cook  mac- 
aroni in  boiling  salted  water.  Serve  around  meat,  add  brown  gravy 
made  from  drippings  in  pan,  or  a  tomato  sauce  may  be  used. 

VEAL  AND  TOMATO. 

Wipe  veal,  cut  in  small  2y2  inch  pieces.  Saute  in  fat.  Mako 
tomato  sauce  and  add  to  veal  sauted.  Let  simmer  2  or  3  hours  till 
very  tender  or  cook  in  oven  in  covered  pan. 

POT  ROAST. 

14  C.  suet  6  pepper  corns 

1  small  onion  cut  in  cubes  1  C.  hot  water 

1  small  carrot  cut  in  cubes  3  lbs.  beef  (neck,  shoulder) 

%  t.  salt  6  cloves 

Trim  meat  and  remove  bones.  Sear  with  suet.  Simmer  2  hours 
in  hot  water,  vegetables,  and  seasoning.      Roast  2  hours  in  kettle. 

MEAT  OUTLETS. 

1  lb.  cold  ground  meat  y>  green  or  red  pepper 

1  t.  salt  14  t.  onion  juice 

%  t.  pepper  14  C.  to  y2  C.  stock 

1  t.  minced  parsley 
Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.       Moisten  with  stock.       Shape 
Into  cutlets.      Cover  them  with  buttered  crumbs.      Bake  in  hot  oven 
till  brown.      After  they  have  cooked  5  min.  add  a  little  stock  to  pre- 
vent burning. 

LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Wipe  liver  and  bacon  with  damp  cloth.  Remove  rind  from 
bacon.  Pour  boiling  water  over  liver,  let  stand  5  min.  Remove  tough 
skin  and  veins.  Wipe  with  cloth,  roll  in  flour.  Heat  frying  pan, 
add  bacon,  cook  until  brown.  Remove.  Pour  off  excessive  fat  and 
put  in  pan.      Put  liver  in  frying  pan  and  cook  till  tender. 

ROAST  BEEF. 

Wipe  meat  with  damp  cloth.  Sprinkle  flour  over  meat,  all  sides. 
Put  in  dripping  pan  on  a  trivet,  surround  with  ys  inch  water.  Allow 
20  min.  to  a  pound.  Baste  with  liquid.  Salt  meat  as  soon  as  re- 
moved from  oven. 

BROWN  GRAVY. 

To  3  T.  fat  left  in  dripping  pan  add  slowly  3  T.  flour,  y2  t.  salt. 
Then  add  very  slowly  iy2  C.  water  or  stock.      Cook  briskly  5  min. 


118  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Dress,  clean  and  truss  duck  as  chicken.  Put  in  dripping-pan  on 
rack,  dredge  with  flour  and  place  two  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  on 
breast.  Bake  20  to  30  min.  Baste  often.  Domestic  ducks  require 
twice  the  time  to  roast  as  wild  ducks.  Quartered  apples  make  good 
stuffing. 

Serve  acid  sauce  with  ducks. 

DUCK  STUFFING. 
%  C.  cracker  crumbs  y2  C.  chopped  peanuts 

y2  C.  milk  or  water  14  t.  onion  juice 

14  t.  salt  %  t.  pepper 

2  T.  butter  Mix  in  order  given 

POTATO  STUFFING. 

2  C.  hot  mashed  potatoes  iy±  C.  bread  crumbs 

14  C.  chopped  fat  salt  pork  4  T.  melted  butter 

1  egg  1  T.  salt 

%  t.  pepper  1  t.  powdered  sage 

Mix  in  order  given 

BREADED  CHOPS. 
Wipe  mutton,  veal   or  lamb  chops  with  damp  cloth.       Roll  in 
crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  from  5  to  8  min.       Drain 
on  brown  paper. 

MOULDED  VEAL  OR  CHICKEN. 

2  C.  flaked  meat  1  t.  mustard 
y2  T.  salt  f .  g.  cayenne 
1  T.  sugar                                             2  egg  yolks 

1  T.  flour  iy2  T.  butter 

3/4  C.  milk  2  T.  cold  water 

14  C.  vinegar  1  T.  gelatine 

DIRECTIONS :  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Mix  dry  ingredients, 
add  egg  yolks,  thoroughly,  in  double  boiler  top.  Add  butter,  milk 
and  vinegar  and  cook  over  hot  water  till  thick.  Add  dissolved  gel- 
atine, stir  in  meat  and  pour  into  wet  mould  to  set. 

PRESSED  VEAL. 
1  lb.  lean  veal  1  C.  liquor  obtained  from 

V2  t.  salt  cooking  of  the  veal 

y8  t.  pepper  1  hard-cooked  egg 

Chop  veal  fine,  put  layer  of  meat  in  pan,  then  layer  of  the  egg 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  119 

sliced  thin,  layer  of  meat,  pour  over  liquor,  press  and  chill.     Garnish 
with  parsley. 

JELLIED  VEAL. 

Stew  a  knuckle  of  veal,  covered,  until  tender,  adding  the  season- 
ings used  for  white  stock.  (See  soups).  When  tender,  remove  the 
meat,  allow  to  become  cold  and  cut  into  %  inch  cubes.  Prepare  an 
aspic  jelly  (see  boned-chicken)  from  white  stock,  pour  14  incn  in^° 
mould  and  let  get  firm.  Garnish  with  hard-cooked  egg  in  daisy  de- 
sign, and  set  with  a  little  liquid  jelly.  Have  the  remaining  jelly 
cold,  but  not  stiff;  mix  with  the  meat  and  fill  the  mould.  When  firm 
dip  a  moment  in  warm  water.  Turn  out,  garnish  with  lettuce  and 
stuffed  eggs  or  quarters  of  lemon  and  parsley. 


Meat  and  Fish  Sauces 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

A :  White  Sauce  No.  2,  using  white  stock  alone  or  one-half  each 
of  milk  and  stock. 

B :     Onion,  carrot,  turnip,  one  slice  each. 

Fry  B  in  butter  before  adding  flour  to  A.  For  richer  Bechamel 
add  a  litle  cream  and  chopped  mushrooms. 

POULETTE  SAUCE. 
(For  sweetbreads,  chicken  breasts  and  other  entrees). 
A:     1  pt.  Bechamel  sauce. 
B :     Yolks  4  eggs,  1  c.  cream. 

C:  IT.  butter,  juice  y2  lemon,  1  T.  chopped  parsley,  dash  of 
nutmeg. 

Beat  B  together.  Remove  A  from  fire,  add  it  slowly  to  B,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  Put  on  fire  a  moment  to  thicken,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil.      Add  C.  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  and  serve  at  once. 

MAITRE  d'HOTEL  SAUCE. 
(Broiled  fish,  chops  and  steaks.) 
A  :     2  T.  butter. 

B :     %  tsp.  salt,  %  tsp.  pepper,  1  T.  finely  chopped  parsley. 
C:     IT.  lemon  juice. 

Cream  A  and  B,  then  C  slowly.  Spread  on  meat  and  let  heat  of 
meat  melt  sauce. 

MINT  SAUCE.       (Spring  Lamb.) 

A:     1  bunch  mint.  B:     IT.  sugar.       C:     %  c.  vinegar. 

Wash  and  chop  A.  Dissolve  B  in  C  and  add  A,  and  let  stand  1 

hour  before  serving  it.  If  wanted  hot  heat  B  and  C,  and  add  A  just 

before  serving. 

CAPER  SAUCE.       (For  Boiled  Mutton.) 
A:     Drawn  butter.       (See  following  recipe.) 
B :     3  T.  capers,  drained  from  liquor. 
Add  B  to  A. 

DRAWN  BUTTER.       (For  Boiled  or  Baked  Fish.) 
A  :     1-3  cup  butter. 
B :     2  T.  flour,  %  tsp.  pepper,  y2  tsp.  salt. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  121 

C :     1%  C.  hot  water. 

Melt  one-half  A,  add  B,  pour  on  gradually,  boil  five  minutes,  add 
remainder  of  A  in  small  pieces. 

CELEEY  SAUCE.       (For  Boiled  Fowl.) 
A :     1  c.  white  sauce  No.  2. 
B :     y2  c.  celery  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Boil  B  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  add  to  A,  or  1  C.  drawn 
Ibutter  sauce. 


EGG  SAUCE.       (For  Boiled  Fish.) 
2c.  White  Sauce  No.  2. 

3  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  or  small  dice  or  chopped. 
1  tsp.  chopped  parsley. 


Add  B  to  A  or  to  drawn  butter  sauce,  then  add  C  if  desired. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

A:     3  T.  butter,  y2  slice  onion. 

B :     3  T.  flour,  14  tsp.  salt,  y8  tsp.  pepper. 

C:     1  c.  brown  stock. 

Brown  A,  remove  onion,  add  B  and  brown,  then  add  C  gradually. 

BROWN  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
A :     1  cup  Brown  Sauce.       B :     14  can  mushrooms. 
Drain,  rinse  and  cut  in  quarters  B  and  add  to  A. 

PIQUANTE  SAUCE. 
A :     1  c.  brown  sauce. 

B :     IT.  vinegar,  y2  small  shallot  chopped  fine,  1  T.  each  chopped 
capers  and  pickles,  a  few  grains  cayenne. 
Add  A  to  B. 

TOMATO  SAUCE.       (For  Meats,  Croquettes  and  Entrees.) 

A  :     2  T.  butter. 

B :  1  slice  carrot  and  onion,  a  bay-leaf,  pepper,  salt,  1  sprig 
parsley,  %  can  tomatoes. 

Melt  y2  A,  add  B,  cook  slowly  15  minutes.  Add  remainder  of 
A  in  small  pieces. 

SAUCE  TART  ARE.       (For  Fish  and  Cold  Meats.) 
A:     y2  tsp.  mustard,   1  tsp.  powdered  sugar,   y2  tsp.   salt,  few 
grains  cayenne. 

B  :     Yolks  2  eggs. 

D:     y2  T.   each   capers,   pickles,   olives,   parsley   finely   chopped, 


122  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

shallop  finely  chopped,  14  tsp.  powdered  tarragon. 

Mix  A,  add  B,  stir  thoroughly.  Add  C,  at  first  drop  by  drop, 
stirring  with  a  Dover  egg  beater.  As  it  thickens  add  iy2  T.  vine- 
gar, then  add  C  more  rapidly.  Keep  cold,  and  when  ready  to  serve 
add  D. 

SOUBISE  SAUCE.       (For  Mutton  or  Pork  Chops.) 
A:     2  c.  sliced  onions.       B:     1  c.  White  Sauce  No.  2. 
C:     %  c.  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  A  5  minutes  in  boiling  water;  drain,  cook  again  in  boiling 

water  until  soft;  drain,  rub  through  a  sieve.      Add  C  to  B  and  then 

add  A. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE.  (For  Boiled  Fish,  Asparagus,  Cauliflower.) 

A:     1/2  C.  butter. 

B:     Yolks  2  eggs,  1  T.  lemon  juice. 

C:     1-3  cup  boiling  water. 

D :     %  tsp.  salt,  few  grains  cayenne. 
Wash  A  in  cold  water,  using  a  wooden  spoon;  divide  in  three 
pieces;  put  B  in  double  boiler.       Add  1-3  A,  stir  constantly  until 
melted,  then  add  second  and  third  piece.       Add  C,  cook  one  minute, 
remove  from  fire  and  add  D. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 
To  Hollandaise  Sauce  add  1-3  cup  lobster  meat  cut  in  small  dice. 


Sauces 


DRAWN  BUTTER. 

Make  as  white  sauce,  using  water  or  meat  or  fish  broth  for  the 
liquid  in  place  of  milk,  and  adding  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  cut 
in  bits  just  before  serving. 

To  be  served  with  baked  or  boiled  fish. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 
For  liquid,    use  %  milk  and  !/2  highly-seasoned  white  stock,  and 
proceed  as  for  white  sauce. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 
Melt  and  brown  2  T.  butter,  then  brown  in  it  3  T.  flour.       Cool; 
add  one  cup  browji  stock.       A  little  onion  and  carrot  may  be  fried 
in  butter  before  adding  flour. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 
Thicken  thin  hot  cream  by  adding  flour  blended  with  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  cook  20  min.  in  a  double  boiler.       Season. 

ALLAMAND  SAUCE. 

Bechamel  sauce  and  one  egg  yolk  well  beaten,  and  1  t.  lemon 
juice. 

ASPARAGUS  SAUCE. 
White  sauce  and  cooked  asparagus  heads  or  pulps. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 
Drawn  butter  sauce  and  1%  C.  capers.      Chopped  parsley,  olives, 
or  cucumber  pickles  may  be  used  in  same  way. 
Serve  with  boiled  mutton  or  white  fish. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 
y2  C.  celery  cut  in  dice  and  cooked  till  tender,  added  to  one  C. 
white  sauce. 

CURRY  SAUCE. 
Use  %  t.  curry,  mixing  it  with  the  flour  and  butter  of  a  white 
or  brown  sauce. 

To  be  served  with  baked  or  boiled  fowl. 


124  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

MAIZE  SAUCE. 
When  ready  to  serve,  stir  into  white  sauce  one  C.  popped  corn 
Serve  with  boiled  fowl  as  a  garnish  around  the  bird,  and  put  dry 
popped  corn  in  the  edge. 

LOBSTER,  OYSTER  OR  SHRIMP  SAUCE. 
1  C.  white  sauce  and  %  C.  fish  parboiled  and  cut  in  pieces.  Hoi 
landaise  sauce  is  also  used  as  a  foundation. 

EGG  SAUCE,  1. 
Drawn-butter  sauce  and  1  or  2  hard-cooked  eggs  sliced  or  hopped. 
Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

EGG  SAUCE,  2. 
Drawn-butter  sauce  and  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  t.  lemon- 
juice. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
Either  white  or  brown  stock,  add  %  can  mushrooms,  cut  in  slices 
or  quarters.       Fresh  mushrooms  may  be  used  or  the  stalks  may  be 
stewed  in  the  water  used  for  sauce. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 
Beat  6  T.  butter  to  a  cream,  beat  in  2  egg  yolks,  14  t.  salt,  y8  t. 
pepper,  add  gradually  V2  C.  boiling  water,  1  t.  cornstarch  diluted  in 
%  C.  cold  water.       Cook  mixture  over  hot  water;  when  thick  add 
juice  of  y2  lemon.      Serve  at  once. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  NO.  2. 

2  T.  butter  1  C.  steamed  tomato 

2  T.  flour  14  t.  salt 

1-16  t.  pepper  Make  as  a  white  sauce 

OLIVE  SAUCE. 

2  T.  butter  iy2  cups  water  or  stock 

3  T.  flour  1  t.  minced  onion 
%  t.  salt                                              chopped  olives 

%  t.  pepper 
Brown  butter  in  saucepan.      Add  flour,  add  stock  slowly,  season. 
Add  olives. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 

3  T.  butter  V2  t.  salt 

4  T.  flour  (browned)  %  t.  pepper 

2  cups  water  or  stock  and  y2  can  mushrooms 

liquor 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  125 

Chop  mushrooms  in  small  pieces.  Cook  5  min.  in  butter.  Re- 
move.      Add  flour,  seasonings  and  water  slowly.  Add  mushrooms. 

Miscellaneous:  Onion,  garlic,  chives,  mushrooms,  truffles,  es- 
sence of  anchovy,  capers  and  other  pickles. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

1  C.  confectioner's  sugar  1-3  t.  vanilla 

1-3  C.  butter  %  t.  cinnamon 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  add  flavoring.  Make  in  fan- 
cy shapes.     Sprinkle  with  cinnamon. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

{4  T.  horseradish  (  l/2  t.  mustard 

4  T.  fine  bread  crumbs  A  <  XA  t.  paprica 

%  t.  salt  (  2  T.  vinegar 

1  t.  powdered  sugar  i  i).  white  sauce 

Directions — Mix  all  ingredients  marked  "A."  Cook  in  double 
boiler.  While  hot,  add  white  sauce.  Cool.  Pack  and  freeze  till 
spongy. 


Salads 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

1  t.  salt  2  T.  lemon  juice 

1  t.  mustard.  2  T.  vinegar 

1  t.  confectioner's  sugar  2  eggs 

14  t.  paprika  iy2  C.  olive  oil 

Use  wooden  spoon.  Thoroughly  chill  bowl,  spoon,  oil  and  eggs. 
Separate  the  eggs.  Mix  sifted  dry  ingredients  with  yolks.  Add  oil 
slowly,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  When  mixture  becomes  thick  add  oil, 
vinegar  and  lemon  juice,  alternating.  Should  be  thick  enough  to 
hold  shape  well.  Beat  whites  stiff.  Fold  in.  Thick  cream  may  be 
used  in  place  of  whites. 


BOILED  DRESSING. 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  sugar 

1  tsp.  mustard  2  tbl.  oil 

1  tsp.  salt  1  cup  milk 

!/4  tsp.  paprika  V2  CUP  hot  vinegar 

Separate  the  eggs.  To  the  yolks  add  the  ingredients  in  the  order 
given,  adding  the  vinegar  very  slowly;  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick,  then  turn  onto  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  light  and  dry;  mix 
well,  strain  and  set  away  to  get  cold.  Will  keep  several  days  if  kept 
in  a  cool  place. 


FRENCH  DRESSING.  NO.  1. 

4  tbl.  olive  oil  14  tsp.  salt 

iy2  tbl.  vinegar  %  tsp.  white  pepper 

Mix  the  salt  and  pepper  in  a  cup,  add  one  tablespoon  of  the  oil; 
mix  well,  then  add  one-half  of  the  vinegar  a  little  at  a  time;  blend, 
and  add  the  remainder  of  oil  and  vinegar  alternately. 


FRENCH  DRESSING  NO.  2. 

!/4  tsp.  salt  10  drops  onion-juice 

14  tsp.  white  pepper  1  tbl.  vinegar 

3  tbl.  olive  oil  y2  tbl.  lemon- juice 

Mix  the  salt,  pepper,  onion-juice  and  one  tablespoon  of  oil;  then 
add  alternately  the  remaining  oil,  vinegar  and  lemon-juice. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  127 

BOILED  DRESSING. 

1  t.  mustard  1  egg 

i/2  T.  salt  i/4  T.  vinegar 

1  T.  sugar  1  C.  milk  or  sour  cream 

2  T.  flour  iy2  T.  butter 


Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  egg,  beaten  slightly,  butter,  milk  and 
vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater. 

BANANA  AND  PEANUT  SALAD. 

Wash  2  bananas,  remove  skin  and  slice  in  1  inch  slices.  Roll 
slices  in  ground  peanuts  (iy2  C.)  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  moisten 
with  mayonnaise,  or  boiled  dressing. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD. 
Remove  skins  from  tomatoes.       Remove  a  thin  slice  from  top  of 
each,  take  out  some  of  the  pulp.      Refill  with  equal  quantities  of  cel- 
ery,   cucumbers    and   nuts,    also   pulp.       Moisten    with    mayonnaise. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


PINEAPPLE  AND  ORANGE  SALAD. 
Cut  pineapple  and  oranges  into  small  pieces.       Add  a  few  nut 
meats.       Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves  or  orange  baskets.       Serve  with 
Mayonnaise  dressing. 

CHERRY  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

Remove  stones  from  preserved  cherries.  Arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves.  Garnish  with  pecan  nut  meats  or  walnut  meat.  Serve  with 
salad  dressing. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 
Cut  tips  from  asparagus.       Place  3  or  4  tips  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Garnish   with   strip   of   red   pepper   and   French   dressing,    or   salad 
dressing. 

GREEN  VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

1  head  celery  or  %  head  1  hard-cooked  egg 

cabbage  2  cucumbers 

3  tomatoes  (dry  portion)  %  green  pepper 

Chop  vegetables  separately  and  drain  well.  Arrange  in  layers 
on  salad  plate.    Use  egg  riced  for  garnish. 


128  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

JELLIED  CABBAGE  SALAD. 

3  C.  chopped  cabbage  y2  t.  salt 

2  green  peppers  chopped  4  T.  lemon  juice 

%  C.  sugar  2  T.  gelatine 

%  C.  vinegar  iy2  C.  boiling  water 

%  C.  cold  water 
Hydrate  gelatine.      Mix  chopped  cabbage,  peppers,  vinegar,  sugar, 
lemon  juice,  seasoning.      Dissolve  gelatine  over  hot  water,  add  to  1% 
cups,  boiling  water,  then   add  cabbage  mixture.       Mould.       Cut  in 
slices  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  dressing. 


l!T>- 


CUCUMBER  CUPS. 
Wash  cucumbers.      Cut  cucumber  in  three  pieces  crosswise.      Re- 
move pulp  from  each.       Cut  in  small  pieces,  add  equal  quantities  of 
celery,   moisten  with   salad  dressing,   and   refill.       Serve   on   lettuce 
leaves. 

BANANA  BOATS. 
Wipe  bananas,  take  off  section  of  skin  without  breaking  other 
part.       Take  out  pulp,  cut  in  dice,  sprinkle  with  French   dressing. 
Lay  overlapping  slices  of  banana  along  top  for  oars.       Set  on  lettuce 
leaf. 

CUCUMBER  TUBS  FOR  SALAD. 

Choose  large  cucumbers.  Cut  into  three-inch  lengths.  Trim 
off  half  an  inch  from  top  all  round  except  at  each  side,  where  small 
pieces  of  rind  should  be  left  to  represent  handles.  Mark  off  little 
bands  of  rind  which  are  to  run  around  the  tub  and  cut  away  rest  of 
rind.  After  paring,  scoop  out  inside.  Fill  with  chopped  cucumber, 
tomato,  celery  or  any  desired  filling.  Serve  with  dressing,  garnish 
with  parsley. 

STUFFED  CHERRIES. 
1  can  white  cherries  1  head  lettuce 

y2  cup  hazel  nuts 
Wash  and  crisp  lettuce.     Carefully  remove  stones  from  cherries 
and  place  a  hazel  nut  in  cavity  of  each  cherry.       Place  on  a  bed  of 
lettuce,  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  dressing. 

BANANA  SALAD. 

4  bananas  6  English  walnuts 

1  head  lettuce  2  tbl.  chopped  parsley 

Strip  one  section  of  the  skin  from  the  bananas;  remove  the  fruit 
and  cut  into  dice  (y±  inch  cubes.)       Put  the  diced  bananas  in  a  deep 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  129 

dish,  turn  over  them  French  dressing,  and  let  them  stand  in  a  cool 
place  one-half  hour.  Then  fill  the  skins  with  the  prepared  fruit  and 
arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves  that  have  been  thoroughly  washed 
and  crisped.  Garnish  with  finely-minced  parsley  and  halves  of  Eng- 
lish walnuts. 

TOMATOES   STUFFED   WITH   CUCUMBERS. 

5  tomatoes  V2  tsp.  salt 

1  cucumber  %  tsp.  pepper 
4  pimentoes 

Peel  the  tomatoes,  cut  off  the  stem  ends,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp, 
thus  forming  cups;  turn  cups  upside  down  and  put  in  a  cool  place. 

Chop  fine  the  solid  pulp  from  the  tomatoes  and  one  cucumber 
chilled  before  chopping;  stir  into  a  cup  of  cream  dressing  and  fill  the 
tomatoes  with  the  mixture.  Salt  and  pepper  needed  in  addition  to 
that  of  the  dressing.       Serve  at  once  on  lettuce  leaves. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Use  two  parts  of  cold  cooked  chicken  to  one  part  of  celery. 
Marinate  and  drain  the  chicken,  add  the  celery,  and  mix  with  Mayon- 
naise or  boiled  dressing.  Arrange  the  salad  in  nests  of  lettuce 
leaves,  and  put  a  pimola  in  the  centre  of  each  nest. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  DRESSING. 

1/2  C.  chicken  stock  2  T.  flour 

!/4  C.  vinegar  3  T.  melted  butter 

2  egg  yolks  1  t.  mustard 
y2  t.  salt  f.  g.  cayenne 

i/8  t.  pepper  y2  C.  cream  or  milk 

DIRECTIONS :  Mix  dry  ingredients  in  sauce-pan,  add  egg  yolks 
beaten  slightly,  add  butter,  vinegar  and  milk.  Cook  until  thick. 
Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater. 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

1  cauliflower,  medium  10  pimentoes 

size  1  tsp.  salt 

Soak  the  cauliflower  in  salted  water  an  hour;  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender;  drain. and  chill;  then  marinate  with  French 
dressing  and  set  aside  for  half  an  hour.  Sever  the  flowerets  partly 
from  the  stalk,  but  so  as  not  to  change  their  relative  positions,  and 
place  on  a  serving-dish.  Put  heart  leaves  of  lettuce  between  the 
flowerets  and  about  the  base  of  the  vegetable;  pour  a  cup  of  Mayon- 
naise dressing  over  the  whole,  and  sprinkle  with  pimentoes,  or  fine 
chopped  parsley. 

In  serving  separate  the  floAverets  with  a  sharp  knife. 


130  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

FRUIT  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

3  oranges  i/2  lb.  white  grapes 

3  bananas  14  lb.  English  walnuts 

Peel  neatly  three  oranges  and  slice  them  lengthwise;  also  cut  the 
bananas  in  thin  slices.  Skin  and  seed  half  a  pound  of  white  grapes, 
and  blanch  and  slice  the  meats  of  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  Eglish 
walnuts.  Serve  very  cold  on  lettuce  leaves,  dressed  with  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  oil,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice — less,  if  the  oranges 
are  sour — and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 


LOBSTER  SALAD. 

1  pt.  lobster  meat  1  head  lettuce 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

2  tbl.  vinegar  14  tsp.  white  pepper 
y2  tsp.  salt 

Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce,  cut  the  lobster  meat  into  dice  and 
sprinkle  with  the  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar,  and  add  one-fourth  of  the 
salad  dressing;  mix  and  make  in  little  mounds  in  the  lettuce  leaves 
that  have  been  arranged  for  individual  serving;  dress  with  the  re- 
mainder of  the  salad  dressing,  garnish  with  the  lobster  claws,  and  if 
there  is  any  coral  put  it  through  a  potato  ricer,  and  sprinkle  on  the 
top  of  each  salad. 

BEET  SALAD. 

I  good-sized  beets  14  tsp.  salt 

1  head  lettuce 
Wash  and  put  the  lettuce  to  crisp.  Wash  and  cook  the  beets. 
When  tender,  plunge  into  cold  water,  and  remove  the  skins.  When 
thoroughly  cold,  cut  into  cubes  %  inch  square,  sprinkle  with  %  tsp. 
salt;  arrange  on  the  lettuce  leaves  so  as  to  be  served  individually, 
and  dress  with  salad  dressing. 

EGG  SALAD. 

1  head  lettuce  V2  dozen  hard-cooked  eggs 

Wash  and  crisp  the  lettuce;  cook  the  eggs  45  min.,  and  cool  in 
cold  water;  remove  from  the  shells,  cut  into  halves,  removing  yolks, 
and  cut  the  whites  into  rings.  Arrange  the  lettuce  leaves  so  as  to 
form  a  bed  on  a  round  plate;  lay  the  rings  on  the  lettuce  leaves,  and 
fill  each  ring  with  the  yolk  of  egg  that  has  been  put  through  a  potato- 
ricer;  pile  the  remaining  yolk  in  the  centre  and  dress  all  with  salad 
dressing. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  131 

STKING  BEAN  SALAD. 
2%  cups  cold  cooked  1  head  lettuce 

string  beans 
Wash   and  crisp  the  lettuce.       Cut  string  beans   into  half-inch 
pieces,  arrange  lettuce  in  salad  bowl,  place  the  beans  in  centre  and 
turn  over  all  French  dressing. 

VIOLET  SALAD. 

1  bunch  violets  1  tbl.  red  or  white  wine 

2  tbl.  celery  heart  2  heads  white  endive  or 
1  tbl.  parsley  chicory 

1  tsp.  chives 

Mince  celery,  parsley  and  chives  fine;  pour  over  them  the  wine; 
add  two  dozen  fresh  violet  petals,  and  pour  this  over  two -heads  of 
white  endive  or  chicory.      Garnish  with  fresh  violets  and  serve. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

12  cold  boiled  potatoes  J  tsp.  white  pepper 

4  hard-cooked  eggs  2  tbl.  of  salt 

2  small  Bermuda  onions  6  tbl.  each  of  oil  and  vinegar 
2  tbl.  chopped  parsley  y2  tsp.  powdered  sugar 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  dice  and  chop  eggs  fine.  Chop  the  onions, 
or  slice  them  very  thin.  Sprinkle  the  potatoes,  eggs  and  onions  with 
the  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  the  oil  gradually  over 
the  mixture,  stirring  and  tossing  continually;  lastly  mix  with  the 
other  ingredients  the  vinegar,  in  which  the  sugar  has  been  dissolved. 
Sprinkle  chopped  parsley  over  the  top. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD. 

1  cold  cooked  beet  y2  cup  cold  green  string 

1  cold  cooked  carrot  beans 

1  cold  cooked  potato  1  head  lettuce 

Wash  and  crisp  lettuce.  Cut  the  cold  carrots,  beets  and  potatoes 
into  slices  14-inch  thick,  then  into  14-inch  cubes ;  cut  part  of  the  beans 
into  % -inch  pieces,  put  the  vegetables  on  separate  plates  and  marinate 
with  French  dressing;  set  away  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  ar- 
range the  lettuce  for  individual  serving.  Mix  the  cubed  vegetables 
and  place  an  equal  quantity  on  each  set  of  leaves.  Dress  lightly  with 
salad  dressing  and  garnish  with  the  whole  string  beans. 

CABBAGE  AND  PEPPEK  SALAD. 

Wash  one  cabbage.  Kemove  outer  leaves.  Bemove  center;  chop 
fine  2  green  peppers,  %  cup  celery,  and  cabbage  pulp.  Bemove  seeds 
from  peppers,  soak  in  boiling  water  3  min.      Place  in  cold  water.    Mix 


132         THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 


salad  dressing  with  mixture;  refill     shell.       Garnish     with     parsley. 
Place  on  bed  of  shredded  lettuce. 


FRUIT  SALADS 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

(a)  2  c.  celery  cut  fine,  1  doz.  walnut  meats  blanched  and 
chopped  fine,  grate  rind  1  orange. 

(b)  6  slices  tart  apple  one-fourth  inch  thick,  peeled  and  cored, 
or  6  fine  red  apples  with  inside  scooped  out,  making  cups,  or  1  c, 
apples  cut  into  dice. 

Mix  a  with  Mayonnaise  dressing  and  apple  dice ;  fill  the  cups,  and 
serve  in  a  nest  of  lettuce  or  water  cress. 

PINEAPPLE  AND  CELERY. 

(a)  2c  shredded  pineapple,  1  c.  celery,  1  pimento  or  sweet  red 
pepper,  mixed  with  Mayonnaise  cream  dressing. 

Serve  ice  cold  on  lettuce;  garnish  with  nut  meats,  or  serve  in 
peeled  apple  cups. 

MACEDOINE  FRUIT  SALAD. 

(I) 

1  c.  orange  sections  freed  from  white  skin,  1  c.  banana  cut  in 
slices,  1  c.  Malaga  grapes  cut  in  halves  and  seeds  removed,  y±  c- 
candied  cherries  cut  in  halves,  14  c.  blanched  almonds,  ]/2  c-  powdered 
sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Mix  lightly  and  serve  in  individual  lettuce  cups  or  in  orange 
baskets. 

(II) 

2  c.  orange  sections  cut  in  pieces,  a  small  pineapple  peeled  and 
cut  in  small  pieces,  1  box  strawberries,  y2  c.  Avalnut  meats. 

Blend  lightly  or  arrange  colors  in  masses,  and  garnish  with  small 
lettuce  leaves. 

CHEESE  SALAD  AND  TOMATOES. 

1  Neufchatel  cheese  3  T.  chopped  nut  meats 

Olives 
Cream  to  moisten  cheese  or  French  dressing;  whole  tomatoes. 
Moisten  Neufchatel  cheese  with  cream,  add  nuts  and  olives.      Sea- 
son, shape  in  long  roll,  chill,  cut  in  slices  y8-inch  thick.       Cut  toma- 
toes having  3  cuts.      Do  not  cut  way  to  the  other  side.      Insert  slices 
of  cheese  in  these  spaces.       Serve  with  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  133 

MAKGUEKITE  SALAD. 

Cook  5  eggs  in  boiling  water  10  min.  Eemove  shells,  cut  egg  in 
half  lengthwise,  then  each  half  lengthwise  again.  Kemove  yolk  and 
mash  them  with  silver  fork  or  put  through  potato  ricer.  Place  the 
egg  whites  on  lettuce  leaves  to  form  daisy  petals,  using  the  yolk  for 
yellow  centre.      Moisten  with  Mayonnaise. 

LENOX  SALAD. 

5  tomatoes  cut  fine  2  peppers,  1  green,  1  red, 

1  C.  celery  cut  fine  chopped  fine 

1  small  onion,  cut  fine  %  C.  chopped  nuts 

Moisten  with  salad  dressing. 

BEETS  STUFFED  WITH  CABBAGE  AND  NUTS. 
Boil  beets    (young)    till  tender,  skin,  remove  centres,   cut  equal 
portions  of  beet,  nuts,  cabbage  or  celery  very  fine.       Moisten  with 
dressing,  refill  cavity,  garnish  with  lettuce. 


E&gs 


(Testing  for  freshness.) 
Eggs  should  be  heavy  for  size.      Held  to  light,  look  translucent. 
Put  in  fresh  water,  sink  to  bottom.       Fresh    do  not  rattle.       Whites 
will  whip  stiff  and  dry. 
Packed  eggs 

stand  on  end  when  put  in  water.      Held  to  light,  look  mottled.  Shaken, 
rattle,  shell  thin  with  dark  spots  showing  from  inside. 
Stale  eggs 

Eise  part  way  or  to  top  when  put  in  water.  Will  not  poach  well. 
Egg  yolk  and  white  mix  when  broken.  Whites  will  not  whip  stiff. 
Are  watery  and  contain  gases. 

EXPERIMENTS  WITH  EGGS. 
Experiment  I. 

I.  Apparatus:     Retort  stand,  wire  gauze,  beaker,  test-tube,  ther- 

mometer. 

II.  Materials:       White  of  egg,  cold  water. 

III.  Directions:       Pour  white  of  egg  into  test-tube,  having  suf- 

ficient quantity  to  cover  thermometer  bulb.  Suspend  the 
test-tube  in  the  beaker,  not  allowing  it  to  touch.  Sur- 
round it  with  cold  water,  seeing  that  the  water  level  is 
above  the  white  of  egg.  Suspend  the  thermometer  in  the 
test-tube,  not  allowing  it  to  touch  the  bottom  of  tube.  Heat 
the  water  slowly. 

IV.  Note  and  record  : 

1.  Temperature  at  which  coagulation  is  first  apparent. 

2.  Temperature  at  which  whole  mass  is  coagulated. 

3.  Consistency  of  coagulated  white  at  such  temperatures. 

4.  Consistency  when  the  water  reaches  the  boiling  point. 

Experiment  II. 

As  experiment  I,  substituting  the  yolk  for  the  white  of  egg. 
I.     Note  and  record : 

1.  Temperature  at  which  coagulation  is  first  apparent. 

2.  Temperature  at  which  whole  mass  is  coagulated. 

3.  Consistency  of  coagulation  of  yolk  at  such  temperatures. 

4.  Consistency  when  the  water  reaches  the  boiling  point. 

Experiment  III. 

To  determine  the  amount  of  yolk  and  white  necessary  to  thicken 
a  liquid : 


Egg 

Sugar 

1 

1  T. 

1  yolk 

2-3  T. 

1  white 

1-2  T. 

LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  135 


I.  Utensil :     A  double  boiler. 

II.  Materials  :      I  pint  milk,  2  eggs. 

III.  Proportions : 

Milk 

No.  1.  2-3  cup 

2.  2-3  cup 

3.  2-3  cup 

IV.  Method  of  Mixing: 

Nos.  1  and  2.  Heat  the  milk.  Beat  the  egg  until  smooth, 
but  not  foamy.  Pour  the  heated  milk  slowly  upon  the  egg, 
stirring  as  you  pour.  Keturn  the  mixture  to  the  boiler,  and 
stir  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Note  the  length  of  time. 
Turn  the  mixture  into  a  cold  vessel  when  it  has  thickened. 

No.  3.  Mix  the  white  of  egg  smoothly  with  a  portion  of  the 
cold  milk.      Then  proceed  as  in  Nos.  1  and  2. 

Note  results,  and  compare  the  three  mixtures  as  to  consist- 
ency and  flavor. 

Queries : 

When  should  sugar  be  added  in  Nos.  1  and  2?  How  much? 
When  should  flavoring  be  added? 

How  may  it  be  determined  when  the  mixture  is  cooked 
sufficiently  ? 

If  curdling  occurs,  what  can  be  done  to  remedy  it? 

Experiment  IV. 

I.  Utensils :      A  double  boiler,  small  baking  cups  set  in  a  large 
pan. 

II.  Materials:       1  pint  milk,  2  eggs. 

III.  Proportions : 

Milk  Egg 

No.  1.  2-3  cup  1 

2.  2-3  cup  1  yolk 

3.  2-3  cup  1  white 

1  T.  cornstarch  equals  1  egg,  and  may  be  used  to  increase  thick- 
ening if  desired. 

IV.  Method  of  mixing: 

Proceed  as  in  previous  experiment  (III)  until  the  hot  milk 
has  been  added  to  the  egg.  Fill  the  baking  cups  %  full  with 
the  mixture.  Set  the  cups  in  a  pan  and  pour  hot  water 
around  the  cups  to  2-3  their  height.  Place  in  an  oven  400° 
F.  and  bake  until  the  custards  are  set.  Test  with  a  knife. 
(Why?) 

V.  Compare   the   three   custards   as   to   consistency   and   flavor. 

When  should  sugar  and  flavoring  be  added? 


136  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

EGGS. 

I.  Composition. 

II.  Nutritive  value  and  digestibility. 

III.  Methods  of  cooking. 

(I)  In  the  shell. 

(II)  Out  of  the  shell. 

(Ill) Materials,  seasonings  and  garnishes  suitable  for  com- 
bination with  eggs. 

IV.  Soft-cooked  eggs. 
Method  I. 

Cover  eggs  with  cold  water  and  bring  gradually  to  boiling 
point.  Do  not  allow  water  to  boil.       Let  stand  10  rain. 

Method  II. 

Bring  water  to  boiling  point,  carefully  put  in  the  eggs  with 
a  spoon,  and  place  saucepan  on  back  of  stove,  where  water 
will  not  boil.      Cook  from  6-8  min. 

Method  III. 

Use  the  double-boiler,  having  boiling  water  below;  pour 
boiling  water  into  the  upper  part  and  drop  in  the  eggs 
carefully;  cook  ten  minutes.  Proportion  of  water  1  pint 
to  3  eggs. 

V.  Hard-cooked  eggs. — Extend  time  of  the  above  30-60  min. 

HARD-COOKED  EGGS. 

I.  Eggs  sliced — icith  sauce. 

6  eggs,  1  cup  white  sauce  No.  3. 

Two  or  three  slices  of  toast  or  halves  of  Shredded  Wheat 
Biscuit.  Make  the  sauce,  add  sliced  eggs,  and  serve  on 
toast. 

II.  Stuffed  eggs. 

Eggs  hard  cooked  may  be  cut  lengthwise  or  crosswise,  the 
yolks  removed,  mashed  and  seasoned,  moulded  into  balls  and 
replaced  in  the  whites,  making  egg  baskets.  Or  the  whites 
may  be  evenly  filled  and  the  two  sides  placed  together,  mak- 
ing stuffed  eggs. 
Materials  that  may  be  added  to  the  yolks: 

1.  Potted  meat  or  poultry,  y2  as  much  as  yolks. 

2.  Salmon  or  other  delicate  fish,  same  bulk  as  yolks. 

3.  Grated  cheese  to  taste,  about  1  T.  to  3  yolks. 

4.  Oil,  mustard,  vinegar  and  parsley  to  taste. 

Except  on  No.  4,  allow  1  tsp.  butter  melted  to  3  yolks,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  They  can  be  served  hot  with  a  white  sauce  (No.  3), 
or  cold  without  the  sauce. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  137 

DEOPPED  OR  POACHED  EGGS. 
Place  in  a  shallow  pan  as  many  muffin  rings  as  you  have  eggs  to 
poach.       Add  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  rings,  add  1  tsp.  salt. 
Slip  an  egg  carefully  into  each  ring.       It  requires  6  to  8  minutes  to 
set.      Serve  on  round  slices  of  toast. 

MOULDED  EGGS. 

Butter  well  individual  moulds.  Chop  some  parsley  very  fine  and 
powder  the  inside  of  moulds  with  it ;  slip  in  the  egg  carefully,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  place  a  bit  of  butter  over  each.  Place  moulds  in  a  pan 
of  hot  water  and  poach  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  minutes.  Serve  with 
a  white  bechamel  or  tomato  sauce. 

OMELETS. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  light  colored  and  thick;  add  2 
tablespoons  of  milk,  y8  tsp.  of  salt,  1-16  tsp.  of  pepper,  or  less.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  very  stiff  and  dry.  Cut  and  fold  the  yolks 
into  the  whites. 

Have  a  clean,  smooth  omelet  pan.  When  hot.  rub  it  around  the 
edge  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  covering  both  sides  and  bottom. 
Turn  in  the  omelet  quickly  and  spread  evenly  on  the  pan.  Remove 
from  the  hottest  part  of  the  fire  and  cook  carefully  until  slightly 
browned  on  the  bottom.  Place  in  the  oven  to  set  the  top  (not  brown) 
only  a  minute  or  two.  Cut  on  edges  at  right  angles  to  handle  of  pan, 
and  fold  from  the  handle,  and  slip  carefully  on  a  hot  platter.  Serve 
plain  or  with  a  sauce.      Make  sauce  first. 

Variations.  Before  folding:  Chopped  parsley,  (finely  chopped 
onion,  thin  slices  of  ham,  or  3  T.  chopped  ham,  veal,  or  chicken; 
stewed  tomatoes,  chopped  mushrooms,  shrimps,  oysters  (parboiled)  ; 
grated  cheese. 

OMELET  SOUFFLE. 

Whites  of  3  eggs  Juice  of  %  lemon 

Yolks  2  eggs  iy2  T.  powdered  sugar. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth.  Beat  the  yolks,  add  them 
to  the  whites,  then  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Fold  in  carefully  and 
heap  into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Dredge  with  powdered  sugar. 
Bake  slowly  until  a  golden  brown. 

CREAMY  OMELET. 

3  eggs,  3  tsp.  cream,  1  ssp.  salt,  pepper   (optional.) 
Beat  the  eggs  without  separating  until  very  foamy,  add  the  cream 
and  seasoning,  and  beat  again.       Place  the  bowl  containing  the  mix- 
ture over  hot  water  and  stir  constantlv  until  it  begins  to  set.  Turn  the 


138  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 


mixture  into  a  hot  buttered  frying  pan.      When  the  under  surface  is 
brown,  fold  the  omelet,  turn  on  a  hot  plate  and  serve  immediately. 

CEEOLE  STYLE. 
Have  prepared  on  a  hot  serving-dish  a  can  of  tomatoes,  stewed 
until  they  are  reduced  to  a  pint,  and  upon  the  tomatoes  rounds 
of  buttered  toast  for  each  egg  to  be  served.  Break  some  eggs,  one  by 
one,  into  a  cup,  and  turn  them  into  the  blazer  two-thirds  filled  with 
hot  water;  turn  the  flame  low  and  put  on  the  chafing-dish  cover;  if 
the  water  boils,  turn  down  the  flame.  When  the  eggs  are  nicely 
poached,  remove  with  a  skimmer  to  the  toast.  Pour  out  the  water 
and  melt  in  the  blazer,  browning,  if  desired,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice;  heat  to  the  boiling  point, 
dust  the  eggs  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  over  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 
1  cup  hot  milk  6  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuits 

y±  lb.  cheese,  grated  1  tsp.  entire  wheat  flour 

x/2  tsp.  salt  1  egg,  well  beaten 

14  tsp.  mustard  1  tsp.  butter 

Dash  cayenne 
Put  the  milk  to  heat.  Mix  cheese,  flour,  egg,  mustard,  salt  and 
cayenne  in  saucepan,  and  when  the  milk  is  scalding  hot,  add  it,  a  lit- 
tle at  a  time,  to  the  cheese  mixture.  Stir,  cooking  slowly,  until  thick 
as  cream.  Take  from  fire  and  add  butter ;  stir  in  well  and  pour  over 
the  biscuit  that  have  been  prepared,  as  in  recipe  No.  1.  Serve  at 
once.      Prepare  the  biscuit  before  adding  tbe  milk  to  the  cheese. 

( Biscuits  dipped  quickly  in  milk,  bottom  side  down,  drained  and 
toasted  in  oven  three  to  five  minutes.) 

GOLDEN  BUCK. 

Prepare  a  rarebit  in  one  chafing-dish.  Break  some  eggs  into  the 
blazer  of  another  containing  salted  water  just  "off  the  boil."  When 
the  eggs  are  poached  and  the  rarebit  ready,  place  an  egg  above  the 
rarebit  on  each  piece  of  toast. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

6  eggs,  cooked  in  water  just  below  the  boiling  point  20  min. 

%  cup  of  stock  (fish,  veal  or  chicken.) 

y2  cup  of  milk. 

2  tbl.  butter. 

2  tbl.  flour  or  1  tsp.  cornstarch. 

%  tsp.  curry  powder. 

1  slice  onion. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  139 


Teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Method:  Cook  the  onion  in  the  butter  a  few  minutes,  then 
remove  it  and  add  the  flour  and  curry  powder;  when  frothy,  add  the 
milk  and  stock.  As  soon  as  the  boiling  point  is  reached  set  the 
blazer  in  the  hot  water  pan  and  add  the  eggs  cut  in  quarters.  Season 
with  salt  and  serve  on  sippets  of  toast. 

Light  meats,  fish,  oysters  and  lobsters  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way,  omitting  the  half  cup  of  milk  in  the  case  of  oysters. 
Chicken  livers  may  also  be  prepared  by  the  same  recipe,  in  which  case 
the  livers  should  have  been  cooked  previously.  Or  they  may  be  sauted 
in  a  little  hot  butter  in  one  dish,  while  the  sauce  is  made  in  another. 

FBENCH  OMELET. 

4  eggs  %  tsp.  pepper 

4  tbl.  milk  2  tbl.  butter 

y2  tsp.  salt  . 
Beat  eggs  slightly,  just  enough  to  blend  yolks  and  whites;  add 
the  milk  and  seasonings.  Put  butter  in  hot  omelet-pan;  when  melt- 
ed, turn  in  the  mixture;  as  it  cooks,  prick  and  pick  up  with  a  fork 
until  the  whole  is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Place  on  hotter  part  of 
range,  that  it  may  brown  quickly  underneath.  Fold  and  turn  on  hot 
platter. 

EGG  OMELET  FOE  TWO  PEBSONS. 

2  eggs  2  T.  milk 
%  t.  salt  1  t.  butter 
%  t.  pepper 

Separate  yolks  from  whites.  Beat  yolks  till  thick  and  lemon 
colored.  Add  seasoning  and  milk.  Fold  in  whites  beaten  stiff.  Heat 
frying  pan,  and  butter  sides  and  bottom.  Turn  in  mixture,  cook 
slowly.  When  "puffed"  up,  insert  knife  in  mixture;  if  it  comes  out 
clean,  omelet  is  done.  Put  in  oven  to  dry  off,  then  fold,  and  turn 
on  to  platter.      Serve  with  white  sauce  or  fruit. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

6  eggs  y2  T.  parsley 

Butter  baking  dishes  thoroughly,  dust  with  parsley  minced  fine, 
slip  in  egg,  cook  20  minutes,  if  desired,  hard  in  pan  of  hot  water. 
Turn  out  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

iy2  C.  strained  tomatoes  14  t.  salt 

3  T.  butter  i/s  t.  pepper 

4  T.  flour 


Cheese  Dishes 


WELSH  RAREBIT. 

14  lb.  rich  cream  cheese  A  few  grains  cayenne 

y±  cup  cream  or  milk  1  egg 

1  tsp.  mustard  1  tsp.  butter 

Y2  tsp.  salt  I  slices  toast  or  cracker 

Break  the  cheese  in  small  pieces,  or,  if  hard,  grate  it.  Put  with 
the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Toast  the  bread  and  keep  it  hot.  Mix 
the  mustard,  salt  and  pepper;  add  the  egg  and  beat  well.  When  the 
cheese  is  melted,  stir  in  the  egg  and  butter,  aud  cook  two  minutes  or 
until  it  thickens  a  little,  but  do  not  let  it  curdle.  Pour  it  over  the 
toast.      Many  use  ale  instead  of  cream. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

2  tbsp.  butter  3  eggs 

3  tbsp.  flour  1  cup  grated  cheese 
x/2  cup  milk                                          Dash  of  cayenne 

V2  tsp.  salt 
Melt  the  butter,  add  flour ;  stir  till  smooth ;  add  milk  and  season- 
ings. Cook  two  minutes.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten,  and  the 
cheese.  Remove  from  fire  and  cool.  Then  add  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  twenty-live  to 
thirty  minutes.      Serve  immediately. 

CHEESE  STRAWS,  NO.  1. 
If  the  cheese  straws  are  to  be  made  of  puff  paste,  roll  the  paste 
very  thin;  if  they  are  to  be  made  of  flaky  pie  crust,  roll  the  same 
thickness  as  for  pies.  When  rolled  cut  in  strips  six  to  ten  inches 
long,  and  cut  the  strips  into  straws  one-fourth  inch  in  width.  Lay 
upon  baking  sheets  or  shallow  pans,  leaving  a  space  between  the 
straws  about  one-third  the  width  of  the  straws.  Grate  rich  Ameri- 
can cheese,  season  with  salt  and  red  pepper  and  scatter  quite  thickly 
over  the  straws  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

1  T.  butter  y±  t.  salt 

1  t.  cornstarch  14  t.  mustard 

%  C.  milk  or  cream  1-16  t.  cayenne 

y2  lb.  grated  cheese 
Melt  butter  in  double  boiler,  add  cornstarch,  stir  until  mixed, 

add  milk  gradually.       Cook  2  min.,  add  cheese,  stir  until  cheese  is 

melted.      Season  and  serve  on  toast. 


Croquettes 


FISH  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  cold  flaked  fish  (salmon,  cod  or  halibut). 

1  cup  white  sauce  No.  3.  %  tsp.  white  pepper. 

y2  tsp.  salt. 
Season  fish  with  the  salt  and  pepper;  add  the  white  sauce  and 
cool.  Shape  in  the  form  of  chops,  cylinders,  or  balls,  roll  in  crumbs, 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish  for 
serving,  and  garnish  with  parsley.  If  salmon  is  used,  finely  chopped 
parsley  can  be  mixed  with  the  fish,  and  seasoned  with  lemon.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  quarters  of  lemon. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 
1%  cups  cold  flaked  salmon  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1  cup  thick  white  sauce  Salt 

Few  grains  cayenne 
Add  sauce  to  salmon,  then  add  seasoning.       Spread  on  a  plate 
to  cool.      Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat, 
and  drain. 

For  salmon  cutlets  use  equal  parts  cold  flaked  salmon  and  hot 
mashed  potatoes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then  proceed  as 
above. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 

1%  cups  chopped,  cold-  1  tsp.  finely  chopped  parsley 

cooked  fowl  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

y2  tsp.  salt  Few  drops  onion  juice 

-/4  tsp.  celery  salt  1  cup  thick  white  sauce 

Few  grains  cayenne 
Mix  dry  ingredients  in  order  given.      Cool,  shape,  crumb,  and  fry 
same  as  for  other  croquettes. 

White  meat  of  fowl  absorbs  more  sauce  than  dark  meat.  This 
must  be  remembered  if  dark  meat  alone  is  used.  Croquette  mixtures 
should  always  be  as  soft  as  can  be  conveniently  handled,  when  cro- 
quettes will  be  soft  and  creamy  inside. 

MOCK  SWEETBREAD  CROQUETTES. 

1  pair  calf  s  brains  1  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  veal,  chopped  fine  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

1  tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  chopped  parsley 

1  tbsp.  butter  y2  tsp.  onion  juice 

1  cup  milk  Dash  cayenne 


142  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Remove  membrane  and  blood  vessels  from  brains;  wash  well  and 
soak  in  salted  water  15  minutes.  Remove  from  the  salted  water,  put 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point. 
Drain  and  cool,  then  cut  brains  in  fine  pieces.  Make  a  sauce  of  but- 
ter, flour  and  milk,  and  brains  and  veal,  then  seasonings,  parsley  and 
onion  juice.  Mix  thoroughly  and  put  on  the  ice  until  very  cold. 
Shape  and  fry  according  to  general  directions  for  croquettes. 


CHEESE  CROQUETTES. 

3  tbsp.  butter  Few  grains  cayenne  or 

14  cup  flour  paprika 

2-3  cup  milk  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

IV2  cups  mild  cheese,  grated  Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  milk ;  add  yolks 
of  eggs  unbeaten;  when  well  blended,  add  cheese.  As  soon  as  the 
cheese  melts  remove  from  fire,  add  seasoning,  spread  in  a  shallow  pan 
to  cool.  Turn  on  a  board,  cut  in  small  squares  or  strips,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  for  a  cheese 
course. 

RICE  CROQUETTES  WITH  JELLY. 

y2  cup  rice  y2  tsp.  salt 

y2  cup  boiling  water  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  tbsp.  butter 

Wash  rice,  add  to  water  with  salt,  cover  and  steam  until  rice  has 
absorbed  water.  Then  add  milk,  stir  lightly  with  a  fork,  cover  and 
steam  until  rice  is  soft.  Remove  from  fire,  add  egg  yolks  and  butter ; 
spread  on  a  shallow  plate  to  cool.  Shape  in  balls,  roll  in  crumbs, 
then  shape  in  form  of  nests.  Dip  in  egg,  again  in  crumbs,  fry  in 
deep  fat  and  drain.  Put  a  cube  of  jelly  in  each  croquette.  Arrange 
on  a  folded  napkin  and  garnish  with  parsley,  or  serve  around  game. 
Make  croquettes  small. 


POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  T.  butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

Vo  tsp.  salt  Y^olk  1  egg 

1-3  tsp.  pepper  1  tsp.  finely  chopped  parsley 

14  tsp.  celery  salt,  or  none 
Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  beat  thoroughly.       Shape  on 

plate  with  two  knives,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again;  fry  one 

minute  in  deep  fat. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  143 

BEAN  CROQUETTES. 
1  cup  beans  1  small  onion 

4  cups  water  1  t.  salt 

1  bay  leaf  1-16  t.  pepper 

1  egg  1  T.  butter 

Wash  beans,  soak  over  night.  Boil  slowly  with  bay  leaf  and 
onion  till  tender.  Wash  beans  through  colander.  Season  with 
butter.  Salt  and  pepper  egg;  form  into  croquettes.  Crumb,  egg 
and  crumb.      Fry  in  deep  fat. 


Timbales 


SWEDISH  TIMBALES. 
%  cup  flour  1/2  cup  milk 

y2  tsp.  salt  1  egg 

1  tsp  sugar  1  tbsp.  olive  oil 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually,  and  beaten  egg;  then 
add  olive  oil.  Shape,  using  a  hot  timbale  iron ;  fry  in  deep  fat  until 
crisp  and  brown ;  take  from  iron  and  invert  on  brown  paper  to  drain. 

CHICKEN  TIMBALES. 

(6  small  moulds.) 
Chop  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  chicken  very  fine,  mid  press 
through  a  colander.  Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  into  a  saucepan ; 
when  melted,  add  half  a  cupful  of  tine  bread  crumbs  and  four  table- 
spoons of  cream;  when  it  is  hot,  add  the  chicken,  salt,  pepper,  cay- 
enne, one  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten.  Mix  thoroughly,  take  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  When  perfectly  smooth  lill  six  well-buttered  tim- 
bale moulds  two-thirds  full,  put  them  in  a  pan  in  which  there  is  about 
an  inch  of  water,  cover  the  moulds  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in 
the  oven  fifteen  minutes.       Serve  with  mushroom  or  veloute  sauce. 

MACARONI  TIMBALES. 

(3-8  to  5-8  inch  in  diameter.) 
Cook  until  tender  in  salted  water  long  pieces  of  spaghetti  or  fine 
macaroni.  Put  it  into  the  water  slowly,  and  it  can  then  be  turned 
so  it  will  not  break.  Lay  the  pieces  straight  on  a  napkin  to  cool. 
Butter  well  a  dome-shaped  mold.  Wind  the  spaghetti  around  the 
mould,  holding  it  in  place  as  you  proceed  with  a  layer  of  force-meat. 
Fill  the  centre  with  boiled  macaroni  and  cheese,  mixed  with  a  well- 
reduced  Bechamel  sauce;  or  fill  the  timbale  with  a  salpicon  of  sweet- 
breads and  mushrooms.  Make  the  layer  of  force-meat  thick  enough 
to  give  the  timbale  stability.  Cover  it  with  oiled  paper,  stand  it 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  poach  in  a  slow  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 
This  timbale  may  also  be  made  in  individual  moulds. 

HONEYCOMB  TIMBALE. 
Boil  in  salted  water  large  sized  macaroni.       When  cold,  cut  it 
into  pieces  one-quarter  inch  long,  making  rings.  Butter  a  plain  dome- 
shaped  mould  and  line  it  with  the  rings.      Fill  the  mould  with  minced 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  145 

uncooked  chicken,  turkey  or  veal  mixed  with  cream  sauce.  Add 
three  or  four  eggs  to  the  creamed  mince  just  before  putting  it  into 
the  mould.  Unless  the  eggs  are  added  it  will  not  have  stiffness 
enough  to  hold  in  shape.  Cover  the  mould  with  oiled  paper. 
Place  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  poach  in  a: slow  oven  thirty  min- 
utes. Cooked  meat  can  be  used,  in  which  case  allow  only  twenty 
minutes. 

BEEF  BRAINS. 

Clean  thoroughly  a  pair  of  brains  and  soak  in  cold  water  one 
hour,  changing  water  frequently;  put  the  brains  into  a  saucepan,  add 
two  cupfuls  of  stock,  two  cloves,  two  peppercorns,  two  sprigs  thyme, 
salt  and  half  a  cup  of  white  wine.  Simmer  gently  for  one-half  hour, 
drain  and  cool.  When  cold,  cut  in  dice,  and  heat  in  two  cups  white 
sauce  No.  2.      Serve  in  pate  shells  or  Swedish  timbales. 

FISH  TIMBALES.       (Salmon.) 

Wash,  remove  eggs  and  ovaries.  Kemove  scales.  Wash.  Put 
in  hot  H20  and  let  simmer  .till  soft.  Skin.  Remove  bones.  Macerate 
in  mortar. 

Left  over  meat,  vegetables,  fish,  may  be  used  as  filling  for  tim- 
bales. 

TO  MOULD  TIMBALES. 
Rub  mould  well  with  butter.  Ornament  with  ham,  tongue  or 
hard-cooked  eggs.  Cut  decorations  in  very  thin  slices.  Stamp  into 
shape  with  fancy  cutter.  Arrange  pieces  in  some  design  round  the 
mould.  The  butter  should  hold  design  in  place.  If  the  timbale  is 
to  be  made  of  salpicon  (meat  and  mushrooms),  first  line  the  mould 
%  t°  3/4  incn  thick  with  force-meat  to  give  stability.  Cover  with  an 
oiled  paper  and  poach  in  a  slow  oven  10  to  15  min.  if  small,  and  20 
min.  if  large.  Poaching  (standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  that  comes 
one-half  way  up  round  the  mould.)  The  water  must  not  be  allowed 
to  boil.  When  centre  is  firm,  it  is  done.  To  remove  from  mould  let 
stand  in  water  a  minute.  Invert  on  cloth,  allowing  moisture  to  drain 
off.       Unmould  on  dish  in  which  form  is  to  be  served. 

SUGGESTIONS  FOR  DECORATIONS  OF   TIMBALES. 
Egg,  mushrooms,  vegetables,  macaroni,  spaghetti,  pickle,  colored 
jelly  (fancy  designs.) 

TIMBALE  CA^ES. 

1  egg  yolk  y2  C.  flour 

i/4  t.  salt  1  T.  olive  oil 

1-3  C.  milk 


146  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Beat  egg  slightly  with  salt  and  oil.  Add  milk  and  flour,  beat 
until  smooth.  Use  timbale  iron  to  shape.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until 
crisp  and  brown.  To  heat  timbale  iron,  heat  fat  until  it  smokes,  put 
iron  into  fat,  put  a  little  of  the  batter  into  cup,  dip  iron  in  batter  % 
its  depth,  immerse  into  hot  fat. 

SWEDISH  TIMBALES  WITH  MUSHEOOMS. 

1  C.  mushrooms  sauted  in  4  T.  butter 
butter  y2  t.  salt 

2  C.  boiling  water  %  t.  pepper 
5  T.  flour  (browned) 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  water.  Cut  mushrooms 
in  small  pieces,  add  to  sauce.  Add  seasoning.  Serve  in  timbale 
cases. 


Plain  Cookery — Leftovers 

BEAN  CROQUETTES. 

1  cup  beans  1  small  onion 

4  cups  water  1  tsp.  salt 

1  bay-leaf  1-16  tsp.  white  pepper 

1  egg  1  tbl.  butter 


Wash  the  beans,  and  soak  over  night.  Boil  them  slowly  with 
bay-leaf  and  onion  until  tender,  changing  the  water  several  times. 

Mash  beans  through  a  colander.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and 
pepper;  add  beaten  egg,  form  into  small  croquettes,  roll  them  in  egg 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

FARINA  BALLS. 

14  cup  farina  y8  tsp.  paprika 

1  cup  milk  5  drops  onion-juice 

%  tsp.  salt  Yolk  of  one  egg 

Cook  farina  and  milk  in  double  boiler  for  one  hour,  then  add  sea- 
soning and  yolk  of  egg  well  beaten.  Stir  well  and  set  away  to  cool. 
When  cold  roll  into  balls,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
crumbs  again  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

MACEDOINE  OF  VEGETABLES. 

Y2  cup  turnip  y2  cup  cauliflower 

%  cup  carrot  1  tbl.  butter 

y2.  cup  green  peas  1  tsp.  salt 

y2  cup  string  beans  y8  tsp.  paprika 

Cut  the  turnips  and  carrots  into  half  inch  dice,  or  with  small  veg- 
etable cutters  cut  them  into  fancy  shapes  or  into  small  balls. 

The  vegetables  should  be  cooked  separately  and  well  drained  be- 
fore being  put  together,  and  when  prepared  should  be  mixed  lightly 
so  as  not  to  break  them,  and  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt, 
or  be  moistened  with  a  Bechamel  or  a  cream  sauce.  The  Macedoine 
may  be  used  as  a  garnish  for  meat,  or  can  be  served  separately  in  a 
vegetable  dish.  This  mixture  of  vegetables  may  also  be  used  for  a 
salad.  Sometimes  the  vegetables  instead  of  being  mixed  together 
are  placed  in  separate  piles  around  the  meat  or  on  a  flat  dish,  and 
then  give  a  good  effect  of  color. 


148  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS. 

6  hard-cooked  eggs  %  cup  buttered  cracker- 

1  piut  white  sauce,  No.  1  crumbs 
%  cup  chopped  cold  meat 

Chop  eggs  fine.  Sprinkle  bottom  of  a  bitttered  baking-dash 
with  crumbs,  cover  with  one-half  the  eggs,  eggs  with  sauce,  and  sauce 
with  meat;  repeat.  Cover  with  remaining  crumbs.  Place  in  oven 
on  centre  grate,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown.  Ham  is  the  best 
meat  to  use  for  this  dish.      Chicken,  veal  or  fish  may  be  used. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

2  lbs.  lean  veal  1  T.  lemon-juice 
1-3  lb.  salt  pork                                    2%  tsp.  salt 

4  large  crackers  1  tsp.  pepper 

2  eggs  A  few  drops  onion  juice 

3  tbl.  cream 

Wipe  the  veal,  remove  skin  and  membrane,  chop  fine,  or  force 
through  a  meat-chopper;  add  the  pork  chopped  fine,  then  the  crack- 
ers rolled,  the  lemon-juice,  seasonings,  cream,  and  lastly  the  eggs 
well  beaten.  Press  into  a  loaf  with  rounded  top,  or  pack  into  a  small 
bread-pan;  smooth  evenly  on  top,  brush  over  with  white  of  egg,  and 
bake  slowly  2y2  hours,  basting  frequently.  Eemove  from  pan  when 
cold,  and  serve  cut  in  thin  slices. 

CORNISH  MEAT  PIE. 

1  cup  cooked  meat  cut  in  1  tbl.  butter 

small  cubes  1  tbl.  flour 

y2  cup  boiled  potatoes  cut  y2  tsp.  salt 

in  small  cubes  V4  tsp.  pepper 

1  T.  onion  chopped  fine  1-16  tsp.  celery  salt 

1  cup  brown  stock 
Make  a  brown  sauce  of  the  stock,  flour,  butter  and  seasonings,  add 
the  meat,  potatoes  and  onion.  Line  individual  pie-plates  with  plain 
pastry;  cover  one-half  with  the  meat  mixture,  folding  the  other  half 
of  pastry  over  it  and  pressing  the  edges  together.  Prick  the  upper 
crust  thus  formed,  or  cut  small  gashes.  Brush  over  with  milk  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 

CHICKEN  IN  BASKETS. 
To  three  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes  add  three  tablespoons  butter^ 
one  teaspoon  salt,  yolks  three  eggs  slightly,  beaten,  and  enough  milk 
to  moisten.  Shape  in  form  of  small  baskets,  using  a  pastry-bag  and 
tube.  Brush  over  with  white  of  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  brown  in 
oven.  Fill  with  creamed  chicken.  Form  handles  for  baskets  of 
parsley. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  149 

CLUBHOUSE  FISH  BALLS. 

Boil  one-half  pound  salt  codfish  until  tender,  changing  the  water 
once,  that  it  may  not  be  too  salty.  While  the  fish  is  hot  pick  it  very 
fine  so  that  it  is  feathery;  it  can  not  be  done  fine  enough  with  a  fork, 
and  should  be  picked  by  hand.  To  two  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes 
add  one-fourth  cup  milk  or  cream,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  each  salt  and  pepper;  add  one  cup  fish  measured  lightly  and 
one  egg  well  beaten.  Beat  the  mixture  very  light,  flour  the  hands  and 
shape  into  cones.  Place  on  a  buttered  baking-pan,  brush  with  white 
of  egg,  and  bake  until  a  golden  brown.  Serve  with  a  tomato,  Be- 
chamel or  egg  sauce. 

HAM  TIMBALES. 
1  tbl.  butter  y2  cup  milk 

1  tbl.  flour  Yolks  2  eggs 

2  c.  cooked  ham,  chopped  Whites  2  eggs 
fine 

Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  milk,  add  the  ham,  mix  and 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Mix  again,  then  add  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  Fill  six  custard  cups  two-thirds  full,  set  them  in  a  pan 
half  filled  with  hot  water,  and  bake  twenty  minutes;  turn  out  and 
serve  with  cream  sauce. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

Put  one  tablespoon  butter  in  a  sauce-pan  with  one  tablespoon 
flour;  rub  together  until  smooth,  but  do  not  brown;  add  one  cupful 
of  milk  and  one-half  cupful  of  cream;  stir  until  it  boils,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  and  any  seasoning  you  prefer. 

CASSEROLE  OF  CHICKEN  AND  RICE. 

See  recipe  for  Casserole  under  Mutton. 


Chafing  Dish  Cookery 

CUKKY  OF  CHICKEN. 

1  3  lb.  chicken  2  tbl.  entire  wheat  flour 

3  tbl.  butter  1  tbl.  curry  powder 

3  tbl.  minced  onion  1  tsp.  salt 

1  pt.  of  stock  y8  tsp.  white  pepper 
Singe,  wash  and  draw  the  chicken.      Wipe  and  cut  at  joints  into 

serving  pieces,  removing  the  breastbone.  Dredge  with  entire  wheat 
flour.  Melt  the  butter  in  omelet-pan  and  brown  the  pieces  of  chick- 
en. Then  remove  to  a  saucepan  and  put  the  minced  onion  into  the 
omelet-pan  and  cook  a  golden  color.  Sift  the  flour,  curry,  salt  and 
pepper  together,  and  add  to  the  butter  and  onion.  When  brown,  add 
a  little  at  a  time  the  pint  of  stock ;  cook  until  it  thickens,  then  turn  it 
over  the  chicken  and  simmer  until  tender.  Just  before  removing 
from  the  saucepan  add  one  cup  of  cream ;  heat  and  serve. 

SAUTE  OF  CHICKEN  LIVEKS. 
6  chicken  livers  V?  tsp.  grated  onion 

!y4  tsp.  salt  1  bouillon  capsule 

%  tsp.  white  pepper  1  cup  boiling  water 

2  tbl.  butter  1  T.  flour 

Divide  the  livers  into  thirds.  Place  the  blazer  over  the  blaze; 
put  in  the  butter;  when  it  is  melted,  add  the  onion  and  seasoning, 
then  the  chicken  livers;  cook  two  minutes,  turn,  and  cook  one  minute; 
then  add  two  tablespoons  entire  wheat  flour;  add  the  cup  of  boiling 
water,  in  which  has  been  dissolved  the  bouillon  capsule;  stir  until 
thick  and  smooth ;  set  in  the  hot  water  pan  to  keep  hot  while  you  toast 
bread,  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  or  crackers.  Arrange  the  livers 
neatly  on  the  halves,  and  serve  with  the  sauce. 

CEEAMED  EGGS. 

4  eggs  3  tbl.  grtd.  old  English 
%  CUP  thin  cream  cheese 

1  tbl.  butter  %  tsp.  paprika 

14  tsp.  salt 
Break  the  eggs  separately  in  a  saucer.  Melt  the  butter  in  the 
blazer,  then  add  the  cream,  and  when  it  is  hot  slip  the  eggs  in.  When 
the  eggs  are  nearly  cooked,  sprinkle  over  them  the  grated  cheese,  and 
season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Place  eggs  on  the  toasted  halves  of 
Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  or  toasted  bread,  turn  the  cream  over  them, 
and  serve. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  151 

MINCED  LOBSTEE. 

y2  lb.  lobster  y8  tsp.  paprika 

2  tbl.  butter  y2  tsp.  onion  juice 

Kemove  the  meat  from  the  shell  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Melt 
the  butter  in  the  blazer,  add  onion-juice  and  paprika.  Then  add 
the  lobster;  while  it  is  heating,  toast  the  halves  of  Shredded  Wheat 
Biscuit,  crackers,  or  slices  of  bread;  then  place  the  lobster  on  neatly 
and  serve  while  it  is  hot. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG. 

2  cups  lobster  meat  dice  y2  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  thin  cream  y8  tsp.  paprika 

Yolks  2  eggs,  beaten  light  Dash  nutmeg 

10  drops  lemon  juice  2  tbl.  butter 

Put  the  butter  in  the  blazer  with  the  salt,  paprika  and  onion- 
juice.  When  melted,  add  the  lobser  dice,  cooking  slowly  for  three 
minutes;  then  add  the  cream,  nutmeg  and  yolks  of  eggs  mixed  to- 
gether; stir  slowly  until  thickened,  and  serve  on  toast  or  Shredded 
Wheat  Biscuit. 

OYSTER  NEWBURG. 

1  pt.  oysters  y8  tsp.  paprika 

y2  cup  cream  2  tbl.  entire  wheat  flour 

1  tsp.  onion  juice  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

2  tbl.  butter  Yolk  of  1  egg 
y2  tsp.  salt 

Pick  over  the  oysters  to  be  rid  of  all  bits  of  shell.  Melt  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  add  oysters,  salt,  paprika,  onion  and  lemon-juice; 
cook  three  minutes,  and  melt  remaining  tablespoon  butter;  add  flour, 
and  when  blended,  add  cream;  then  the  yolk  of  the  egg  beaten  slightly; 
cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  slowly;  add  to  the  oysters,  mix  and 
serve. 

CREAMED  SWEETBREAD^. 

y2  tsp.  salt  2  tbl.  entire  wheat  flour 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice  ^4  *SP-  salt 

1  cup  milk  1-16  tsp.  white  pepper 

2  tbl.  butter 

Place  the  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  for  one  hour,  then  parboil 
twenty  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  which  have  been  added  salt  and 
lemon- juice.  When  taken  from  the  boiling  water,  place  again  in  cold 
water;  this  keeps  them  firm  and  white.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  1 
cup  of  milk,  2  tbl.  butter,  2  tbl.  entire  wheat  flour,  %  tsp.  salt,  1-16 
tsp.  white  pepper.  Break  the  sweetbreads  into  small  pieces,  and  re- 
heat in  the  sauce ;  serve  on  toast  or  halves  of  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit. 


152  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

SWEETBREADS  A  LA  SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

1  sweetbread  3  tbl.  butter 

3  eggs  i/4  tsp.  salt 

1-3  cup  milk  i/8  tsp.  white  pepper 

Prepare  the  sweetbread  as  directed  in  recipe  for  creamed  sweet- 
breads; break  into  small  pieces  with  a  silver  fork.  Beat  the  eggs 
slightly;  add  sweetbread,  salt,  pepper  and  milk.  Melt  butter  in 
blazer.      When  melted,  pour  in  the  prepared  mixture  and  cook. 


DEVILED  SHRIMPS. 

1  qt.  shrimps  1-16  t.  paprika 

2  T.  butter  1  T.  chopped  parsley 
1  T.  Worcestershire  sauce  y2  t.  mustard 

1  T.  lemon-juice  or  vinegar  y2  t.  salt 

Remove  intestinal  vein  from  shrimps.  Melt  butter,  add  other  in- 
gredients, but  shrimps.  When  hot,  add  shrimps,  cut  in  pieces.  Cook 
3  min. 

CREAMED  SWEETBREADS. 

Parboil  sweetbreads  by  cooking  slowly  in  acidulated  water  20 
min.  Drain,  plunge  into  cold  water  that  they  may  be  kept  white  and 
firm.  Cut  in  y2  inch  cubes.  Serve  in  white  sauce,  on  toast  or  in 
timbale  or  patty  shells. 


WHITE  SAUCE. 

2  cups  milk  M>,  t.  salt 

4  T  butter  V*  t.  pepper 

4  T  flour 
Melt  butter,  add  flour,  cook  3  min.       Scald  milk  and  add  grad- 
ually.     Season. 


TOMATO  CHEESE  AND  MACARONI. 

1  cup  macaroni  (cooked)  %  t.  salt 

1V2  cups  tomato  %  t.  pepper 

V?  cup  grated  cheese  1  t.  onion 

3  T.  butter  3  T.  flour 

Melt  butter,  cook  until  brown,  cut  onion  very  fine  and  brown  in 

butter;  add  flour  and  tomato  slowly.  Add  grated  cheese.       When 
melted,  add  maraconi  and  seasonings. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  153 

OYSTEK  KAEEBIT. 

1  pt.  oysters  V2  t.  mustard 

2  eggs  1  cup  oyster  liquor 

2  T.  butter  i/4  cup  bread  crumbs  (soft) 

14  t.  salt  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1-16  t.  paprika  Crackers 

Melt  butter,  add  seasonings,  bread  crumbs,  and  cheese;  when 
smooth  add  oysters  which  have  been  scalded,  hard  muscle  removed  and 
drained  and  eggs  well  beaten.  When  cheese  is  melted  and  is  smooth 
serve  on  crackers. 


Invalid  Cookery 

BEEF  TEA. 

Take  one  pound  of  juicy  beef  and  remove  all  the  fat;  cut  in  small 
pieces,  put  in  an  earthen  pot,  add  one  quart  of  cold  water  and  cover 
closely.  Let  it  soak  for  one  hour,  then  simmer  gently  for  two  hours, 
or  until  the  strength  is  extracted  from  the  beef;  strain  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. 

BEEF  ESSENCE. 

Mince  finely  one  pound  of  lean,  juicy  beef,  from  which  all  fat  has 
been  removed;  put  in  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  or  fruit-jar;  cork  tightly; 
put  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water  over  a  slow  fire  and  let  it  simmer 
for  three  hours.  Strain,  season  with  salt  and  red  pepper. 

BEEF  JUICE. 
Place  half  a  pound  of  lean,  juicy  beef  on  a  broiler  over  a  clear, 
hot  fire;  heat  it  through;  press  out  the  juice  with  a  lemon-squeezer 
into  a  hot  cup;  add  salt,  and  serve  with  toast  or  crackers. 

MILK  AND  ALBUMEN. 

Put  into  a  clean  quart  bottle  a  pint  of  milk,  whites  of  two  eggs, 
a  pinch  of  salt.      Cork  well  and  shake  for  five  minutes. 
BEEF  TEA  WITH  OATMEAL. 

Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  well-cooked  oatmeal  with  two  of  boiling 
water;  add  a  cupful  of  strong  beef  tea  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point. 
Bice  may  be  used  instead  of  oatmeal.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
serve  with  either  bread  or  crackers. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

A  fowl  cut  up  and  skinned,  the  bones  broken  with  a  mallet;  put 
into  a  dish  with  cold  water  enough  to  cover;  boil  slowly  for  three  or 
four  hours;  you  can  use  a  little  rice  in  it  if  you  wish.      1  T.  salt. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 
Cut  fine   two  pounds   of  lean   mutton,   without   the   fat   or   the 
skin;  tablespoonful  of  barley,  one  quart  of  cold  water,  teaspoonful 
of  celery,  teaspoonful  of  salt.      Boil  slowly  for  two  hours. 

OYSTER  BROTH. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  a  pint  of  oysters  and  one  and  one-half  pints 
cold  water;  let  them  simmer  gently  for  ten  minutes  over  the  fire; 
skim,  strain,  season  and  serve  with  toast. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  155 

JUNKET. 
1  pt.  warm  milk  1  T.  sugar 

%  tablet  rennet 
Heat  milk  to  lukewarm  temperature,  add  sugar  and  rennet.  Stir 
till  mixed.      Cool,  set  in  cool  place,  do  not  jar.      Serve  with  cream. 

EGG  WATER. 

Stir  the  whites  of  two  eggs  into  half  a  pint  of  ice  water  without 
beating.  Add  enough  sugar  or  salt  to  make  it  palatable.  Especially 
good  for  children  teething  and  for  diarrhoea. 

EGG  BROTH. 
Beat  one  egg  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  until  very  light. 
Pour  into  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water.      Stir  it  to  keep  it  from  curdling. 
Add  salt  and  keep  it  hot. 

CORN  TEA. 
Parch  brown  a  cupful  of  dried  sweet  corn,  grind  or  pound  it  in 
a  mortar ;  pour  over  it  two  cups  of  boiling  water.      Steep  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour.      This  is  a  light  and  nutritious  drink. 

RICE  COFFEE. 
Parch  and  grind  like  coffee  half  a  cupful  of  rice;  pour  over  it  a 
quart  of  boiling  water,  stand  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil. 
Strain,  add  boiled  milk  and  sugar.      Especially  good  for  children. 

CRUST  COFFEE. 
Take  a  pint  of  crusts — those  of  Indian  meal  are  best — brown  well 
in  a  quick  oven;  pour  over  them  three  pints  of  boiling  water;  steep 
for  ten  minutes,  and  serve  with  cream. 

TEA. 
Tea  should  be  made  in  an  earthen  pot,  first  rinsing  with  boiling 
water.  Allow  a  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  each  half  pint  of  water.  Put 
in  tea;  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  in  the  steaming  pot;  add  freshly 
boiling  water;  let  it  stand  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  be- 
tween three  and  five  minutes. 

COFFEE. 

Stir  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee,  four  of  cold  water  and 
half  an  egg.  Pour  on  them  a  pint  of  freshly  boiling  water;  let  it  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Stir  down  grounds;  let  it  stand  where  it  will  keep 
hot  for  five  minutes  longer,  and  before  serving  put  the  sugar  and 
cream  in  the  cups,  and  pour  the  coffee  on  them. 


156  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

BEEF  BALLS. 
Take  a  small  piece  of  steak  from  top  of  round,  wipe  and  cut  in 
one-third  inch  strips.  With  a  knife  scrape  the  freshly  cut  surface, 
removing  all  that  is  possible  of  the  soft  part  of  the  meat;  then  turn 
and  scrape  the  other  side.  Season  with  salt ;  if  pepper  is  desired,  use 
sparingly.  Form  into  small  balls,  using  as  little  pressure  as  possible. 
Cook  one  minute  in  a  hot  omelet-pan  sprinkled  with  salt,  shaking  pan 
to  keep  the  balls  in  motion.  Arrange  on  small  pieces  of  buttered  toast 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

LEMONADE  WITH  EGG. 
Beat  one  egg  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  unitl  very  light; 
stir  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water  and  the  juice  of  a  small 
lemon.      Fill  a  glass  with  pounded  ice.      Drink  through  a  straw. 

BARLEY  WATER. 
Wash  thoroughly  two  ounces  pearl  barley  in  cold  water;  add  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  until  reduced  to  one  quart,  or  about 
two  hours,  stirring  frequently.       Strain,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
and  sweeten.      For  infants,  omit  the  lemon-juice. 

TOAST  WATER. 
Toast  three  slices  of  stale  bread  very  dark  brown,  but  do  not 
burn;  put  into  a  pitcher,  pour  over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  cover 
closely,  and  let  it  stand  on  ice  until  cold.  Strain;  a  little  wine  and 
sugar  ma}7  be  added  if  desired.  Especially  good  for  nausea  from  diar- 
rhoea. 

i 
APPLE  WATER. 

Slice  into  a  pitcher  half  a  dozen  juicy,  sour  apples;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  pour  over  them  one  quart  boiling  water;  cover  close- 
\j  until  cold;  strain.      This  is  slightly  laxative. 

GUM  ARABIC  DRINK. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  gum  arabic  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  wine  glass  of  sherry,  and  the  juice  of 
a  large  lemon.      Cool  and  add  ice. 

FLAXSEED  LEMONADE. 

Into  a  pint  of  hot  water  put  two  tablespoons  of  whole  flaxseed; 
steep  for  an  hour,  strain  and  add  juice  of  a  lemon ;  2  T.  of  sugar.  Put 
on  ice  till  wanted. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  157 

IRISH  MOSS. 
Wash  thoroughly  Carrageen  moss;  pour  over  it  two  cups  of  boil- 
ing water ;  let  it  stand  where  it  will  keep  hot  for  two  hours,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil.  Strain,  add  juice  of  lemon,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Slippery 
elm  may  be  used  in  the  same  way,  a  tablespoonful  of  the  powder  to 
each  cup  of  boiling  water. 

BRAN  TEA. 

To  a  pint  of  wheat  bran  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water;  let  it  stand 
where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  for  an  hour.  Strain,  and  serve 
with  sugar  and  cream.      This  makes  a  palatable  and  nutritious  drink. 

FLOUR  GRUEL. 

Mix  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  milk  enough  to  make  a  smooth 
paste,  and  stir  it  into  one  quart  of  boiling  milk.  Boil  for  half  an 
hour,  and  be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Salt  and  strain.  A  very 
good  gruel  for  diarrhoea. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL. 
Boil  one  tablespoonful  of  oatmeal  and  one  pint  of  water  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.       Put  it  through  strainer.       If  too  thick  reduce 
Avith  boiling  water,  or  you  can  add  milk  if  you  choose. 

CRACKER  GRUEL. 
Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  three  tablespoonfuls  of  fine 
cracker  crumbs;  add  one  teaspoonful,  of  salt.      Boil  up  once.       Serve 
immediately. 

INDIAN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Mix  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  Indian  meal  with  a  little  cold  wa- 
ter; stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water.  Boil  half  an  hour;  strain  and 
season.      Sugar  and  milk  may  be  added,  if  liked. 

ARROWROOT  GRUEL. 

Mix  a  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  with  four  of  cold  milk;  stir  it 
slowly  into  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  then  simmer  for  five  min- 
utes. Must  be  stirred  all  the  time.  Add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
one  of  cinnamon  (or  in  place  of  cinnamon  use  a  little  brandy  or  a 
dozen  large  raisins.)  You  can  make  a  cornstarch  or  rice  flour  gruel 
in  the  same  way. 

MULLED  WINE. 
Into  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water  put  two  teaspoonfuls  broken 
stick  cinnamon,  half  a  dozen  small  cloves.       Let  them  steep  for  ten 


158  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

minutes,  and  then  strain.  Beat  together  until  very  light  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoons  sugar  and  stir  into  the  spiced  water.  Pour  into  this 
one  cup  of  sweet  wine,  boiling  hot. 

Pouring  it  several  times  from  one  pitcher  to  another  will  make  it 
light  and  foamy.      Serve  hot.      Do  not  boil  in  tin. 

MILK  PUNCH. 

Half  a  pint  of  fresh  cold  milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
ounce  of  brandy  or  sherry,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved. 

EGGNOG. 
Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  stiff,  then  stir  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  tablespoonful  of  ice  water,  milk  and  wine. 
Do  not  beat  it,  but  stir  gently. 


Puddings 

POOE  MAN'S  PUDDING. 
4   cups   milk  y2  t.  salt 

y2  cup  rice  y2  t.  cinnamon 

i/4  cup  molasses  1  T.  butter 

Wash  rice;  mix  ingredients,  pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Bake 
slowly  3  hours.      Stir  with  fork.     Add  butter  towards  last  of  cooking. 

BANANA  BETTY. 

Remove  crusts  from  part  of  a  loaf  of  stale  bread.  Slice  as  thin 
as  possible.  Brown  delicately,  spread  with  butter.  Butter  baking 
dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs,  add  layer  of  toast,  layer  of  bananas 
peeled  and  cut  in  quarters,  lengthening.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinna- 
mon, lemon  juice.  Kepeat.  Add  1  cup  boiling  water.  Cover  with 
crumbs.      Bake  covered.       Serve  with  lemon  juice. 

CHOCOLATE  STEAMED  PUDDING. 

3  T.  butter  214  cups  flour 

2-3  cups  sugar  ±y2  t.  baking  powder 

1  egg  2  sq.  chocolate 

1  cup  milk  14  t.  salt 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder,  add  alternately  with  milk,  add  chocolate. 
Turn  in  mould.    Steam  2  hours. 

APPLE  FLOAT. 

16  apples  %  cups  sugar  (put  in  warm) 

Whites  2  eggs  Whipped  cream 

Pare,  quarter,  core  apples.      Cook  in  double  boiler  till  soft.   Beat 

free  from  lumps,  when  soft  add  warm  sugar.      Beat  eggs  dry.      Add 

apple,  beat  until  light.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTAKD.. 

2  cups  milk  3  T.  grated  chocolate 

3  yolks  1  t.  vanilla 
%  CUP  sugar 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler;  when  hot,  add  egg  yolks,  sugar  and 
grated  chocolate.  Cook  until  spoon  is  coated.  Use  egg  whites  for 
meringue. 


160 


THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 


STEAMED  FEUIT  PUDDING. 


li/2  C.  shredded  wheat 

crumbs  rolled  and  sifted 
V2  C.  whole  wheat  flour 
1/4  C.  sugar 
%  C.  chopped  suet 
1  t.  baking  powder 
i/2  t.  salt 
i/g  t.  cinnamon 
Directions : 
dry  ingredients. 


14  C.  chopped  English 

walnuts 
y8  t.  nutmeg 

1/2  wine  glass  sherry  wine 
14  C.  shredded  figs 
14  C.  shredded  dates 
i/4  C.  chopped  apple 
2i/4  C.  milk 
Koll  all  chopped  fruit  and  suet  in  flour.       Sift  all 
Have  water  boiling  before  pudding  is  put  in  kettle. 


Butter  the  mould,  place  on  trivet.     Steam  2y2  hours. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

y8  t.  cinnamon 


21/2  C.  flour 
1  t.  soda 
1/2  t.  salt 
1%  C.  milk 
1  C.  chopped  suet 
Steam  three  hours  in  buttered  mould. 


i/g  t.  nutmeg 


1  C.  raisins  or  currants 
i/2  C.  molasses 


SAUCE. 

1  T.  cornstarch  dissolved  in  IT.  butter 

milk  or  water  1  egg 

1  C.  sugar  i/4  t.  vanilla 


SUET  STEAMED  PUDDING. 


1  t.  salt 
1/2  t.  ginger 
1/2  t.  clove 
y2  t.  nutmeg 
1  t.  cinnamon 
Add  molasses  and  milk  to  suetr 

combine   mixtures.       Turn   into  buttered  moulds.       Steam  3  hours. 

Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  sterling  sauce. 


1  C.  chopped  suet 
i/o  C.  molasses 
iy2  C.  milk 
3  C.  flour 
1  t.  soda 
Mix  and  sift  drv  ingredients. 


STEELING  SAUCE. 


% 


C.  butter  1  t.  vanilla 

1  C.  brown  sugar  4  T.  milk 

Cream   butter.       Add  sugar  gradually,   and  milk   and   flavoring 
slowly  to  prevent  separation. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  161 

CHOCOLATE  BREAD  PUDDING. 

2  C.  bread  crumbs  y2  C.  sugar 

3  C.  scalded  milk  %  t.  salt 

1  egg  1  sq.  chocolate,  melted 

Scald  milk,  break  bread  in  small  pieces,  pour  on  milk,  add  sugar, 
salt,  egg  well  beaten.      Let  stand  1  hour,  then  bake  until  slightly  firm. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

1  C.  confectioner's  sugar  1-3  C.  butter 
1-3  t.  vanilla 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  add  flavoring.      Make  in  fan- 

CHOCOLATE  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

4  cups  milk  2  T.  hot  water 
3  T.  cornstarch                                     4  T.  sugar 

%  cup  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

2  eggs  f.  g.  cinnamon 

2  sq.  chocolate 

Mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  scald  remainder  of  milk. 
Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  pour  scalded  milk  over  eggs.  Melt  chocolate, 
add  water  and  sugar,  when  smooth,  add  to  milk  mixture.  Cook  10 
min.      Mould. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 
1  cup  milk  2  eggs 

1  cup  flour  14  t.  salt 

Mix  salt  and  flour,  add  milk  gradually  to  form  a  smooth  paste, 
then  eggs  beaten  light.  Cover  bottom  of  pan  with  melted  fat.  Bake 
25  min.  in  hot  oven.       Cut  in  squares  when  serving. 

RICE  PUDDING  WITH  PEACHES. 

3  cups  milk  6  T.  sugar 

14  t.  salt  2  eggs 

y2  cup  rice  V2  cup  peaches 

Cook  blanched  rice  in  milk  in  double  boiler  covered  till  soft, 
add  sugar,  eggs  well  beaten  and  peaches.      Bake  10  minutes. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 
Cut  5  oranges  in  slices.       Place  in  glass  dish,  add  1  cup  sugar. 
Let  stand  covered.      Make  a  custard  of 

1  cup  sugar  1  T.  cornstarch 

3  egg  yolks  1  pt.  milk 

14  t.  vanilla 
LTse  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue.       Pour  custard  over  oranges. 


1G2  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

COFFEE  SOUFFLE, 

V/2  cups  strong  coffee  1  t.  gelatine 

1  cup  milk  14  t.  salt 

1-3  cup  sugar  y±  cup  water 

3  eggs 
Hydrate  gelatine  in  water.  Put  coffee  and  milk  in  doube  boiler, 
add  dissolved  gelatine.  Beat  egg  yolks  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt. 
Four  hot  mixture  on  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  till  spoon  is 
coated.  Let  stand  in  dish  cooked  in,  stirring  occasionally.  Fold  in 
egg  whites  beaten  stiff  when  cool.  Before  it  thickens  pour  into 
mould. 

KHUBABB  PUDDING. 

Butter  baking  dish.  Cover  bottom  with  slices  of  bread  well  but- 
tered. Cover  with  cubes  of  rhubarb.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Kepeat. 
Bake  covered  30  min. 


GKAHAM  PUDDING. 

2  C.  graham  flour                              1  C.  molasses 

1  C.  raisins  1  C.  sweet  milk 

1/2  t.  salt  2  t.  soda 

Steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


DATE  PUDDING. 

1  C.  suet  or  butter  1/0  t.  salt 

1  C.  sugar  1  T.  cinnamon 

1  C.  milk  2  T.  baking  powder 

1  lb.  dates  3  C.  flour 

2  eggs 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  stone  dates,  cut  in  small  pieces,  roll  in  flour, 
add  egg  yolks  beaten  light,  fruit,  milk,  ami  egg  whites  beaten  stiff 
fold  in  last.      Steam  3  hours. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

1  cup  scalded  milk  3  eggs 

2  T.  butter  14  cup  lukewarm  water 
2  T.  sugar  %  yeast-cake 

1/2  t.  salt  Flour 

Scald  milk.  Dissolve  yeast-cake  in  cup  warm  water.  Pour 
milk  over  butter  and  salt.  When  lukewarm,  add  yeast  and  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  rise  till  light.  Beat  eggs  well.  Whip  into 
batter,  pour  into  buttered  gem-pans.      Let  rise  again.      Bake. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  163 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Make  a  lemon  jelly.  Place  in  bowl  of  ice.  When  it  begins  to 
thicken,  beat  with  Dover  egg-beater  until  it  becomes  white  and  a  mass 
of  froth.  Turn  into  mould  to  harden.  Serve  with  boiled  custard 
or  any  preserve  or  compote  of  fruit. 

CARAMEL  CUSTAED. 

2  cups  scalded  milk  %  t.  vanilla 

2  eggs  slightly  beaten  3-8  cup  sugar 

14  t.  salt 
Melt  sugar  till  water  is  evaporated.      Add  milk  gradually,  eggs 

slightly  beaten,  add  salt  and  vanilla.       Bake  as  custard  in  buttered 

mould. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

%  cup  butter  214  cups  flour 

2-3  cup  sugar  4  t.  baking  powder 

1  egg  V2  t.  salt 

1  cup  milk 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg  well  beaten;  sift  baking 
powder  with  flour  and  salt  and  add  alternately  with  milk.      Bake  35 
min.      Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 
y2  cup  sugar  2  T.  butter 

1  cup  boiling  water  IV2  T.  lemon-juice 

1  T.  cornstarch  ■  1-16  t.  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch,  add  water  gradually.       Cook  5  min. 

Add  butter  and  flavoring  just  before  serving. 


PLUM  PUDDING. 
3%  C.  flour  1  t.  ground  cloves 

1  C.  seeded  raisins  2  t.  ground  cinnamon 

1  C.  currants  1  C.  molasses  (warmed) 

1  C.  chopped  suet  1  C.  milk 

14  lb.  chopped  citron  1  t.  soda 

It.  salt 
Mix  all  dry  ingredients  except  soda.  Add  milk  slowly,  sift  soda 
into  molasses  and  add  to  rest  quickly.  Put  into  an  oiled  melon  mould. 
Steam  4  hours.  When  done  cover  with  English  walnuts,  sticking 
them  in  about  %  inch.  Pour  a  glass  of  brandy  over  all.  Ignite  the 
brandy,  place  on  table  while  burning.  Serve  with  hard  sauce  flavored 
with  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  wine. 


164  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

y2  cup  butter  4  eggs 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  flour 

Put  butter  and  water  in  saucepan.  When  boiling  add  flour  all 
at  once;  stir  till  smooth.  Remove  from  fire,  add  unbeaten  eggs  one 
at  a  time.  Mix  thoroughly.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  sheet 
iy2  inches  apart.  Bake  30  min.  in  moderate  oven.  Make  incision  in 
top  large  enough  to  admit  filling. 

CREAM  FILLING. 
%  cup  sugar  2  cups  scalded  milk 

i/8  t.  salt  5  T.  flour 

2  eggs  14  t.  lemon  extract 

Mix  dry  ingredients;  add  egg  slightly  beaten.  Pour  on  scalded 
milk.       Cook  5  min.       Stir  till  thick;  cool  and  flavor. 

COFFEE  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

2-3  cup  strong  coffee  1-3  cup  sugar 

2%  T.  cornstarch  y±  cup  cold  water 

y2  cup  English  walnut  meats 
Put  coffee  in  double-boiler;  add  sugar,  dissolve  cornstarch  in  cold 

water  and  add.      Cook  till  thickens.      Add  chopped  walnuts.       Pour 

in  moulds.      Serve  with  whipped  cream  and  sugar. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 
1  cup  cream  3  T.  powdered  sugar 

1  egg  white  V2  t.  vanilla 

Beat  cream  till  stiff.  Beat  egg  white  stiff;  add  gradually,  sug.ir 
and  flavorig.  Combine  with  cream.  Line  glass  cups  with  sponge- 
cake, cut  in  narrow  strips,  or  lady-fingers.  Fill  with  mixture.  Gar- 
nish with  Angelica  or  cherries.       Serve  very  cold. 

DATE  FILLING. 

1  lb.  dates  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 

1  cup  water  lemon 

1  T.  sugar  1/2  T.  butter 
Cook  all  till  soft.       Spread  on  bread. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING. 
%  cup  brown  sugar  3  T.  cornstarch 

2  cups  milk  1  t.  vanilla 
y2  cup  water  1  egg 

Melt  sugar.  Add  water.  Stir  till  dissolved.  Scald  milk, 
add  cornstarch  moistened  with  milk.  Cook  5  min.  Add  caramel, 
egg  well  beaten.  Cook  1  min.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  into  mould. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  165 

SNOW  BALLS. 

V2  cup  butter  21>4  cups  flour 

■     V'2  cup  sugar  S1/^  t.  baking  powder 

Y2  cup  milk  4  egg  whites 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually.  Sift  flour  with  baking 
powder  and  add  alternately  with  milk,  add  whites  beaten  stiff.  Steam 
40  min.  in  buttered  cups  or  mould.      Serve  with  fruit  or  sauce. 

ORANGE  TKIFLE. 

2  T.  gelatine  Grated  rind  one  lemon  and 
!/4  cup  cold  water  orange 

V2  cup  boiling  water  Juice  1  lemon 

1  cup  sugar  1  jar  cream 

1  cup  orange  juice 
Hydrate  gelatine.      Add  sugar  to  fruit  juices.      Add  gelatine  to 
boiling  water.       Pour  over  fruit  juices  when  it  begins    to    thicken. 
Fold  in  cream  beaten. 

Or  make  orange  jelly  reserving  %  of  mixture.  Chill  and  fold 
cream  in  remaining  mixture.  When  firm  turn  out,  garnish  with 
cubes  of  orange  jelly. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING. 

%  cup  brown  sugar  2  cups  milk 

y2  cup  water  1  egg 

3  T.  cornstarch  1  t.  vanilla 

Cook  sugar  to  a  caramel,  add  %  cup  water  and  stir  till  dissolved. 
Moisten  the  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Scald  milk  in  double 
boiler  and  add  the  cornstarch.  Cook  briskly  5  min.  Add  caramel, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  egg  well-beaten.  Cook  one  min.  Cool 
slightly,  add  vanilla,  and  pour  into  mould.  When  cold,  turn  out  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. 

IEISH  MOSS  BLANC  MANGE. 

Mj  cup  Irish  moss  1  qt.  milk 

1  ss.  salt  1  t.  vanilla 

Pick  over  the  moss.  Wash  moss  and  soak  it  in  cold  water  15 
min.  Tie  in  cheese-cloth  bag  and  put  into  double  boiler  with  milk. 
Boil  until  the  milk  will  thicken  when  cooled  in  a  spoon.  Add  salt, 
strain  and  flavor.  Mould  in  egg  shells.  Break  pieces  from  end  of 
egg  shell  size  of  5c  piece.  Turn  out  egg.  Scald  out  shell.  Stand 
upright  in  flour.  Fill  with  blanc  mange.  When  stiff,  pick  shell 
off  carefully.  Put  maraschino  cherry  on  top.  Serve  with  thin 
cream  flavored  with  fruit  juice. 


166  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

FOAMY  SAUCE. 

Whites  2  eggs  1  t.  vanilla 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  T.  grape  jelly 

-/4  CUP  h°t  milk 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 
1  pt.  water  3  egg  whites 

1  cup  sugar  Juice  of  3  lemons 

2  T.  gelatine 

Mix  sugar  and  water.  When  boiling  remove  from  fire,  add  lem- 
on juice  and  hydrated  gelatine.  Stir  till  dissolved.  Allow  to  cool. 
Stir  often  to  prevent  settling.  Beat  egg  whites,  fold  in  mixture  when 
just  beginning  to  become  hard.  Pour  in  mould.  Serve  with  cus- 
tard made  from  yolks.      Garnish  with  violets. 

BANANA  PUDDING. 

1  qt.  milk  y2  C.  sugar 

3  yolks  of  eggs  1  t.  cornstarch 

Make  custard.  Slice  3  bananas  very  thin.  Place  in  pudding 
dish;  pour  custard  over  them.  Make  meringue  of  3  whites.  Cover 
top;  bake  till  golden  brown. 

CHOCOLATE  BREAD  PUDDING. 

2  C.  bread  crumbs  *4  t.  salt 

3  C.  scalded  milk  1  egg 

V2  C.  sugar  1  sq.  chocolate,  melted 

Scald  milk,  break  bread  in  small  pieces,  pour  on  milk,  add  sugar, 
salt,  egg  well  beaten.  Let  stand  1  hour,  then  bake  until  slightly 
firm. 


STEAMED  PUDDINGS 

FIG  PUDDING. 

y2  cup  chopped  figs  y2  cup  chopped  almonds 

y2  cup  chopped  suet  4  eggs 

2  cups  bread-crumbs  2  tsp.  baking-powder 

y2  cup  sugar  2  tsp.  lemon-juice 

1  cup  milk  1  tsp.  almond  flavoring 

14  cup  flour 
Flour  the  fige  and  suet.       Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  milk, 
add  the  sugar,  then  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  beat  well ;  then  add  slowly, 
stirring  all  the  time,  the  figs,  suet,  almonds,  flour  mixed  with  baking- 
powder,  flavoring,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten.       Turn 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOQK.  167 

into  a  buttered  mould,  filling  three-fourths  full;  steam  for  three 
hours.  This  mixture  will  fill  twelve  individual  moulds.  If  small 
moulds  are  used,  place  a  star  of  Angelica  in  the  bottom  of  each  one, 
and  cover  it  with  a  thin  layer  of  boiled  rice;  then  fill  them  one-fourth 
full  with  the  pudding-mixture.  Place  them  in  a  pan  of  hot  water, 
cover  with  buttered  paper  and  poach  on  the  top  of  the  range  V/2  hours. 
This  pudding  can  have  brandy  poured  over  it,  and  lighted  the  same  as 
plum  pudding.      Serve  with  foamy  sauce. 

FEENCH  FKUIT  PUDDING. 

1  cup  chopped  suet  1  tsp.  clove 

1  cup  molasses  y2  tsp.  salt 

cup  sour  milk  ±14  cups  chopped  raisins 

IV2  tsp.  soda  %  cup  currants 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  2%  cups  flour 

Add  molasses  and  sour  milk  to  suet.  Add  two  cups  flour  sifted 
with  soda,  salt  and  spices.  Add  fruit,  covered  with  the  remaining 
flour.  Turn  into  buttered  mould,  cover  and  steam  four  hours.  Serve 
with  foamy  sauce. 

y2  cup  butter  1  egg 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  2  T.  wine  or  vanilla 
Cream  butter,  add  gradually  sugar,  egg  well  beaten,  and  flavor- 
ing.     Beat  while  heating  over  hot  water. 

STEAMED  FEUIT  PUDDING,   NO.  2. 

(Vital  Question,  No.  77.) 
3  cups  Shredded  Wheat  2*4  cups  milk 

Biscuit  crumbs  sifted  %  tsp.  nutmeg 

%  cup  entire  wheat  flour  1  wine  glass  sherry  wine 

V-2  CUP  sugar  y2  cup  shredded  figs 

V2  CUP  butter  i/9  cup  shredded  dates 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  %  cup  shredded  nuts 

1  tsp.  salt  (English  walnuts  and 

i/4  ^p.   cinnamon  almonds) 

Have  water  boiling  before  beginning  the  pudding.  Bub  crumbs, 
butter  and  sugar  together;  add  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted  to- 
gether; spice,  salt,  fruit,  nuts,  wine,  mix  well,  add  the  milk,  turn  into 
a  buttered  mould,  and  steam  three  hours. 

SHBEDDED   WHEAT   BISCUIT,    STEAMED   FEUIT    PUDDING, 

AND  HAED  SAUCE. 

(Vital  Question,  No.  78.) 

3  cups  rolled  shredded  1  cup  entire  wheat  flour 
wheat  biscuit                                    %  tsp.  baking  powder 


168  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Y2  cup  water  14  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  cup  washed  and  chopped  1  scant  tsp.  soda 
raisins  14  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  apples  chopped  with  %  CUP  molasses 
raisins  2  cups  sweet  milk 

14  tsp.  salt 
Put  the  water  on  to  boil  before  beginning  the  pudding.  Then 
butter  the  mold.  Mix  the  butter  and  rolled  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit 
together.  Add  the  flour  in  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  mixed, 
then  the  salt,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  chopped  fruit.  Mix  well.  Add 
the  soda  to  the  molasses,  stir  till  foamy,  add  to  the  mixture.  '  Mix, 
and  add  the  two  cups  milk ;  stir  it  in  well,  pour  into  the  buttered 
mould,  cover,  put  into  the  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  cook  three  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

APPLE  AND  BKOWN  BREAD  PUDDING. 

1  pt.  brown  bread  crumbs  2  T.  flour 

2-3  C.  suet  or  3  t.  lard  1  egg 

1  pt.  chopped  apple  1  C.  milk 

y2  t.  salt  y2  t.  ginger 

Mix   crumbs   and   lard,   add  apple,   salt,   flour.       Beat   egg,   add 

milk;  stir  into  dry  ingredients.  Steam  2  hours.     Serve  with  lemon 
or  hard  sauce. 

COCOANUT  SNOW  PUDDING. 

2%  T.  gelatine  2  C.  boiling  water 

1/2  C.  cold  water  2-3  C.  sugar 

3  egg  whites  %  C.  pineapple 
%  C.  cocoanut 

Hydrate  gelatine.  Scald  pineapple.  Mix  sugar  and  boiling  wa- 
ter; add  gelatine  and  pineapple.  Place  in  pan  of  ice  water.  When 
mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  cocoanut  and  beat  with  egg  beater. 
When  mixture  is  white  fold  in  whites  beaten  stiff.  Mould  and  serve 
with  cream. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

3  C.  milk   (scalded)  %  t.  salt 

3-3  C.  Indian  meal  %  t.  ginger 

14  C.  molasses  y8  C.  sugar 

1  egg 
Pour  scalded  milk  slowly  on  meal.       Cook  in  double  boiler  20 
min.       Add  molasses,  sugar  and  salt  and  ginger.       Lastly  add  egg 
well   beaten.       Pour   into   buttered   dish.       Cook   in   moderate   oven 
until  firm,  about  1  hour. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  169 

DUTCH  APPLE  PUDDING. 
Make  dough  of — 
2  C.  sifted  pastry  flour  y±  C.  butter  or  lard 

V2  t.  salt  1  egg 

3 1/2  t.  baking  powder  y8  C.  milk 

Spread  dough  in  baking-dish,  place  apples  pared,  cored,  and  cut 
in  y2  inch  pieces  in  dough  in  two  layers.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cin- 
namon. Bake  in  oven  until  apples  are  soft.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce 
or  whipped  cream. 

SUET  PUDDING. 
2  C.  graham  flour  1  C.   chopped  suet  rolled  in 

1  C.  raisins  or  currants  flour 

1  ss.  salt  %  C.  milk 

y8  t.  cinnamon  V2  C.  molasses 

%  t.  nutmeg  y2  t.  soda 

Steam  3  hour  sin  buttered  mould. 

NORWEGIAN  PEUNE  PUDDING. 

y2  lb.  prunes  1  1-3  C.  boiling  water 

2  C.  cold  water  5  T.  cornstarch 
1  C.  sugar  1  T.  lemon  juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prnes.  Soak  1  hour  in  cold  water,  boil  in 
same  water  until  soft.  Remove  stones,  obtain  meat  from  a  few 
stones,  add  sugar  and  boiling  water.  Dilute  cornstarch  with  cold 
water  enough  to  pour  easily,  add  to  prune  mixture  and  cook  five  min- 
utes.      Mould,  serve  with  custard  or  cream. 


Desserts 

PKUNE  WHIP. 

1-3  lb.  prunes  1/2  cup  sugar 

Whites  5  eggs  y2  tbl.  lemon-juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes.  Soak  1  hour  in  cold  water,  boil  in 
water  to  cover ;  cook  in  same  water  until  soft ;  remove  stones  and  rub 
prunes  through  a  strainer;  add  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes;  the  mix- 
ture should  be  the  eonsistencyof  marmalade.  Beat  whites  until 
stiff,  add  prune  mixture  gradually  when  cold,  and  lemon-juice.  Pile 
lightly  on  buttered  pudding-dish;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  slow  oven. 
Serve  cold  with  boiled  custard. 

CUSTAED. 

1  pt.  milk  14  C.  sugar 

3  egg  yolks  Pinch  salt 

CIRCASSIAN  PUDDING. 
Boil  six  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs  in  two  cupfuls  of  milk; 
then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  butter;  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  io 
slowly  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg;  when  cold  put  it  in  a  dish  and  bake 
a  light  brown ;  serve  with  foam  sauce. 

FOAM  SAUCE. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  half  a  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar,   and  flavor  with   vanilla,   sherry,   brandy   or  the 
juice  of  a  lemon;  add  quickly  one  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  serve  at 
once. 

CHOCOLATE  AND  ALMOND  PUDDING. 

(a)  1  tbl.  butter,  y2  cup  flour,  y2  cup  grated  chocolate,  %  cup 
milk. 

(b)  5  egg  yolks  beaten  with  %  cup  sugar  until  very  creamy;  1 
cup  almonds  chopped  fine,  rolled  in  flour. 

(c)  Whites  beaten  stiff. 

Mix  a  thoroughly ;  cook  until  boiling,  turn  out  to  cool,  then  add  ~b, 
a  spoonful  at  a  time,  beating  constantly ;  fold  in  c,  fill  buttered  mould, 
steam  one  hour,  turn  out  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  171 

GINGER  PUDDING. 

1-3  c.  butter  3y2  tsp.  baking  powder 

y2  c.  sugar  14  tsp.  salt 

1  egg  %  c.  ginger  cut  in  cubes 
2y4  c.  flour  1  c.  milk 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  egg  well  beaten;  mix  and 
sift  the  dry  ingredients;  add  alternately  with  milk.  Turn  into  but- 
tered mould,  cover  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  boiled  custard 
(1  pt.  milk),  flavored  with  2  tbl.  syrup  from  ginger. 

SNOWBALLS. 

Snowballs  are  made  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  scant 
cupful  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  baking  powder, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  one  lemon 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  until  light,  and  beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  in  another  bowl.  Now  beat  the  water, 
lemon-rind  and  juice  into  the  yolks  and  sugar;  then  add  the  beaten 
whites,  and  finally  the  flour  and  baking  powder  mixed.  Stir  quickly 
and  well.  Pour  this  batter  into  fifteen  little  stone  or  earthen  cups 
that  have  been  well  buttered,  and  cook  in  a  steamer  for  half  an  hour. 
Have  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  on  a  plate,  and  when 
the  snowballs  are  done,  turn  them  out  of  the  cups  upon  this  plate  and 
roll  them  in  the  sugar.      Serve  at  once  with  hot,  clear  wine  sauce. 

CHERRY  TAPIOCA. 

Cover  one  cupful  of  pearl  tapioca  with  two  cupfuls  cold  water; 
let  it  stand  until  all  the  water  is  absorbed ;  now  put  the  tapioca  into 
a  double  boiler,  add  the  juice  from  one  pint  can  cherries  and  cook 
slowly  about  half  an  hour ;  then  stir  in  the  cherries,  turn  into  a  mould, 
and  when  very  cold  turn  into  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream  sauce. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Whip  one  cupful  of  cream;  add  half  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
the  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  stiff,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

APPLE  PORCUPINE. 
Wipe,  core  and  pare  6  apples.       Make  a  syrup  of  1%  C.  water. 
Boil  8  min.,  add  apples  and  cook  until  soft.      Remove  apples,  fill  cav- 
ities with  jelly,  stick  almonds  into  apples.      Pour  syrup  around  apples. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE. 

li/4  T.  granulated  gelatine  14  C.  cold  water 

%  C.  cold  water  3  yolks  of  eggs 

2  C.  maple  sugar  1  pint  thick  cream 


172  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Put  gelatine  in  cold  H20  for  1  hour.  Place  mould  in  cold  water. 
Add  water  to  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved  and  cook  until  it  hairs.  Re- 
move from  fire,  add  gelatine  slowly,  stirring  well.  Allow  mixture 
to  cool  slightly.  Add  one-half  syrup  slowly  to  beaten  eggs.  Turn 
into  remaining  syrup.  Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  until  cold.  Beat 
cream,  fold  cream  into  mixture,  turn  into  mould.  Pack  in  ice  for  3 
hours,  or  leave  in  cold  place  over  night. 

TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

14  C.  pearl  tapioca  or  2  egg  yolks 

iy2  T.  minute  tapioca  1-3  C.  sugar 

2  C.  scalded  milk  %  t.  salt 

1  t.  vanilla  2  egg  whites 

Wash  tapioca  and  soak  1  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover;  then  cook 
until  transparent,  drain,  add  scalded  milk,  egg  and  sugar.  Cook  as 
for  a  custard.      Cool,  add  beaten  egg  whites  (stiff),  add  vanilla. 

PRUNE  WHIP. 

1-3  lb.  prunes  Whites  5  eggs 

y2  cup  sugar  V2  T.  lemon  juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes,  then  soak  1  hour  in  cold  water  to 
cover.  Cook  in  same  water  until  soft.  Remove  stones  and  rub 
prunes  through  a  strainer,  add  sugar,  cook  5  min.  Beat  egg  whites 
stiff,  add  prune  mixture  when  cold,  and  lemou  juice.  Put  in  but- 
tered baking  dish  and  bake  20  min.  in  slow  oven.  Serve  cold  with 
boiled  custard. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 
1  medium  apples  14  t.  cream  of  tartar 

Rind  of  y2  lemon  1  egg  white 

34  C.  water  3/2  C.  candied  fruit 

V2  C.  sugar  Juice  of  1  lemon 

34  C.  boiling  water  2  T.  granulated  gelatine 

Lady  lingers  14  C.  cold  water 

1  C.  whipped  cream 
Pare  and  cook  apples  with  lemon  rind  until  tender,  strain,  cook 
sugar  and  water  until  it  threads.  Remove  from  fire,  add  cream  of 
tartar  and  pour  slowly  on  beaten  egg  white.  Beat  until  creamy,  add 
apple  pulp  and  fruit  in  lemon  juice.  Dissolve  hydrated  gelatine  over 
hot  water  and  add  to  mixture.  Let  cool,  and  when  thick,  fold  in 
whipped  cream,  turn  into  mould  lined  with  lady  fingers. 

MOSAIC  JELLY. 
li/2  C.  milk  ,  2  T.  sugar 

1  slice  lemon  rind  1  bay  leaf 

Yolks  2  eggs  1  T.  gelatine 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  173 

Scald  milk  with  lemon  rind,  bay  leaf  and  sugar.  Add  gelatine 
which  has  been  soaked  in  y±  C.  of  the  milk.  Stir  till  dissolved  and 
strain  on  to  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Return  to  fire  (over  hot 
water)  and  stir  till  thickened.  Remove  from  fire  and  color  one-half 
either  pink  or  green,  allow  other  part  to  remain  plain.  Turn  into  two 
shallow  pans  and  when  firm  cut  in  circles. 

Line  a  mould  with  lemon  jelly  and  garnish  sides  and  bottom 
with  colored  circles.  Fill  with  plain  jelly  or  melt  scraps  left  and  add 
some  lemon  jelly  to  each  and  put  into  mould  in  alternate  layers. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

1  pt.  water  Rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons 
IV2  inch  stick  cinnamon  6  cloves 

1/2  C.  sugar  y2  package  Knox's   gelatine 

Soak  gelatine  in  y2  C.  cold  water.  Put  remainder  of  water  on 
with  sugar,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  lemon  rind.  Allow  to  come  slowly 
to  boiling  point,  add  gelatine  and  lemon  juice.  Do  not  boil.,  Strain 
through  flannel  bag.  If  a  clear  jelly  is  desired,  cool  mixture,  add 
whites  and  shells  of  2  eggs  beaten  slightly.  Return  to  fire,  beat  con- 
stantly until  it  boils.      Let  boil  1  min.       Strain  through  flannel  bag, 

ROLLED  WAFERS. 

y4  C.  butter  14  C.  milk 

y2  C.  powdered  sugar  %  C.  bread  flour 

y2  t.  vanilla 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  milk  very  slowly  and  then 
flour  and  flavoring.  Spread  very  thin  on  the  top  of  an  inverted  bread 
pan.  Crease  in  3  inch  squares.  Bake  in  slow  oven  until  delicately 
brown.  Roll  into  cornucopia  shape  over  handle  of  wooden  spoon. 
Color  with  vegetable  coloring  if  desired. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

y2  box  or  1  oz.  gelatine  1  cupful  sugar 

y2  cupful  of  cold  water  Juice  of  3  lemons,  filtered 

2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  Thin  slices  of  lemon  rind 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water  for  one  hour 

or  more.  Tut  the  boiling  water,  the  sugar  and  a  few  thin  slices  of 
lemon-peel  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
add,  the  soaked  gelatine,  and  stir  until  that  also  is  dissolved ;  then  re- 
move, and  when  it  is  partly  cooled  add  the  lemon-juice.  Strain  it 
through  a  felt  or  flannel,  and  turn  it  into  the  mould.  This  will  make 
one  quart  of  jelly. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

Use  the  recipe  for  lemon  jelly,  using  three-fourths  cup  of  strong 


174  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

filtered  coffee  instead  of  lemon.      Mould  in  a  ring  and  fill  the  centre 
with  whipped  cream.       Strain  coffee  through  double  cheese  cloth. 

WHIPPED  JELLY  OK  SNOW  PUDDING. 
Make  a  lemon  jelly.  Place  it  in  a  bowl  on  ice;  when  it  is  cold, 
but  before  it  begins  to  harden,  beat  it  with  a  Dover  beater  until  it 
becomes  white  and  a  mass  of  froth.  Turn  it  into  a  mould  to  harden. 
Serve  with  it  a  sauce  made  of  boiled  custard,  or  any  preserve  that  will 
go  well  with  flavoring,  or  a  compote  of  orange  or  any  fruit. 

RUSSIAN  JELLIES. 

For  these  double  moulds  are  used. 

No.  1.  Make  the  outside  layer  of  any  transparent  jelly.  When 
hard,  remove  the  inner  mould  and  fill  the  space  with  the  same  jelly 
whipped  until  foamy. 

No.  2.  The  outside  of  transparent  jelly,  the  inside  one  of  differ- 
ent color  and  flavor,  such  as  champagne  and  maraschino  colored  pink, 
orange  and  strawberry,  lemon  and  coffee. 

No.  3.  The  outside  champagne  jelly,  inside  whipped  jelly,  with 
macedoine  of  fruits. 

No.  4.  The  outside  fruits  in  clear  jelly,  the  inside  Bavarian 
cream. 

PEUNE  WHIP. 

1-3  lb.  prunes  V2  cup  sugar 

Whites  5  eggs  M?  tbl.  lemon  juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  prunes.  Then  soak  several  hours  in  cold 
water  to  cover;  cook  in  same  water  until  soft;  remove  stones  and  rub 
prunes  through  a  strainer;  add  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes;  the  mix- 
ture should  be  the  consistency  of  marmalade.  Beat  whites  until  stiff, 
add  prune  mixture  gradually  when  cold,  and  lemon-juice.  Pile  light- 
ly on  buttered  pudding-dish ;  bake  20  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Serve  cold 
with  boiled  custard. 

CIRCASSIAN  PUDDING. 

Boil  six  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs  in  two  cupfuls  of  milk; 
then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  butter;  take  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  slowly 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and 
a  grating  of  nutmeg;  when  cold,  put  it  in  a  dish  and  bake  a  light 
brown ;  serve  with  foam  sauce. 

FOAM  SAUCE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  half  a  cupful 
of  powdered  sugar,  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  sherry,  brandy,  or  the 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  175 

juice  of  a  lemon;  add  quickly  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  and  serve 
at  once.      Grape  juice  may  be  used. 

CHOCOLATE  AND  ALMOND  PUDDING. 

(a)  1  tbl.  butter,  y2  cup  flour,  y2  cup  grated  chocolate,  y2  CUP 
milk. 

(b)  5  egg  yolks  beaten  with  %  cup  sugar  until  very  creamy;  1 
cup  almonds  chopped  fine. 

(c)  Whites  beaten  stiff. 

Mix  "a"  thoroughly;  cook  until  boiling,  turn  out  to  cool,  then  add 
"b,"  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  beating  constantly;  fold  in  "c,"  fill  buttered 
mould,  steam  one  hour,  turn  out  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

GINGER  PUDDING. 

1-3  c.  butter  14  c  ginger  cut  in  cubes 

%  C.  sugar  Sy2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  egg  %  tsp.  salt 

2%  c.  flour  1  c.  milk 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  egg  well  beaten ;  mix  and 
sift  to  dry  ingredients;  add  alternately  with  milk.  Turn  into  but- 
tered mould,  cover  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  boiled  custard 
(1  pt.  milk),  flavored  with  2  tbl.  syrup  from  ginger. 

SNOWBALLS. 

Snowballs  are  made  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  baking  powder, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  the  grated  yellow  rind  of  one  lemon 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  until  light,  and  beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth  in  another  bowl.  Now  beat  the  water,  lemon 
rind,  and  juice  into  the  yolks  and  sugar;  then  add  the  beaten  whites, 
and  finally  the  flour  and  baking  powder  mixed.  Stir  quickly  and 
well.  Pour  this  batter  in  15  little  stone  or  earthen  cups  that  have 
been  well  buttered,  and  cook  in  a  steamer  for  half  an  hour.  Have 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  on  a  plate,  and  when  the  snow- 
balls are  done,  turn  them  out  of  the  cups  upon  this  plate  and  roll  them 
in  the  sugar.      Serve  at  once  with  hot,  clear  wine-sauce. 

CHERRY  TAPIOCA. 
Cover  one  cupful  of  pearl  tapioca  with  two  cupfuls  of  cold  wa- 
ter. Let  it  stand  until  all  the  water  is  absorbed ;  now  put  the  tapioca 
into  a  double  boiler,  add  the  juice  from  one  pint  can  cherries,  and 
cook  slowly  about  half  an  hour;  then  stir  in  the  cherries,  turn  into  a 
mold,  and  when  very  cold  turn  into  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream  sauce. 


176  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Whip  one  cupful  of  cream;  add  half  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
the  white  of  oue  egg,  beaten  stiff,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 


CHOCOLATE  AND  ALMOND  PUDDING. 

1  t.  butter  y2  C.  milk 

1/2  t.  salt  1/2  C.  flour 

V2  0.  grated  chocolate  y2  C.  chopped  almonds 

Cook  all  in  double  boiler,  cool,  then  add  5  yolks  beaten  well,  % 

C.  sugar.       Mix  well,  fold  in  beaten  whites,  put  in  buttered  mould, 

steam  1  hour.       Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  NO.  1. 
2  C.  water  1  C.  milk 

1  C.  sugar  2  sq.  chocolate 

2  T.  cornstarch  i/s  t;  salt 


CHOCOLATE  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 
1  C.  milk  5  T.  cornstarch 

1%  C.  water  %  C.  sugar 

1  sq.  chocolate 

Scald  milk  and  water,  add  chocolate  to  milk.  Mix  sugar  with 
cornstarch,  add  to  milk  mixture.  Cool  until  thick,  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  NO.  2. 

2  C.  milk  1  t.  vanilla 
iy2  T.  cornstarch                                2  eggs 

2  sq.  chocolate  4  T.  powdered  sugar 

2  t.  hot  water  2-3  C.  powdered  sugar 

Scald  milk,  add  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  cold  milk,  cook  8 
min.  Melt  chocolates,  add  4  T.  powdered  sugar  and  hot  water.  Stir 
till  smooth,  and  add  to  cooked  mixture.  Beat  whites  stiff,  add  pow- 
dered sugar,  add  egg  yolks  unbeaten,  stir  into  cooked  mixture,  cook  1 
min.,  add  vanilla. 

COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

2%  C.  milk  1  jar  cream 

1%  C.  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

y2  C.  coffee  %  t.  salt 

Scald  milk  with  coffee,  mix  sugar,  eggs  and  salt  together,  pour 
milk  over.      Cook  as  for  custard. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  177 

MACAROON  CREAM. 

11/2  T.  granulated  gelatine  3  egg  yolks 

14  C.  cold  water  •  1-3  C.  sugar 

2  C.  scalded  milk  %  t.  salt 

3  egg  whites  2-3  C.  pounded  macaroons 

1  t.  vanilla 

Soak  gelatine  in  water,  make  custard  of  milk,  eggs,  sugar  and 
salt.      Add  dissolved  gelatine,  add  macaroons  and  flavoring,  stirring 
until  it  thickens,  then  add  whites  of  egg  beaten  stiff.      Mould, 
cy  shapes. 

MERINGUE. 

Whites  3  eggs  (beaten  stiff)  3  drops  lemon  extract 

2  T.  confectioner's  sugar  Bake  till  brown 

.  BROWNIES. 

1  C.  sugar  2  eggs 

Y^  C.  butter  2  sq.  chocolate 

%  C.  milk  1  t.  vanilla 

1  C.  chopped  nuts  1-16  t.  salt 

2-3  C.  flour 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  milk,  eggs  beaten  light,  flour,  salt  and 
melted  chocolate,  nuts  and  vanilla.     Spread  thin  in  tin,  bake  15  min. 
Cut  in  squares.      Will  make  40. 

BLUSHING  APPLES  WITH  ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Core  6  red  apples  and  cook  without  removing  skins  in  boiling 
water  until  tender.  Turn  often.  Remove  apples  to  a  plate,  take  off 
skins,  scrape  off  red  pulp  on  skin,  replace  it  on  apples.  Reduce  the 
water  to  1  C,  add  1  C.  sugar  and  juice  of  one  orange,  also  grated 
rind.       Simmer  until  thick.       Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

1%  C.  butter  1/2  t.  salt 

i/4  C.  flour  1-16  t.  cayenne 

1  1-3  C.  brown  stock  Juice  of  2  oranges 

Make  as  a  white  sauce.  Add  orange  juice  just  before  serving. 
Serve  with  roast  duck. 

CARAMEL  APPLES. 

6  tart  apples  1  C.  granulated  sugar 

1  C.  brown  sugar  1  C.  water 

14  C.  cream  1  C.  cream  whipped 

1  T.  butter  1  T.  granulated  gelatine 

1  C.  chopped  nuts  %  C.  water 


178  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Add  water  to  sugar,  put  on  to  heat  to  a  syrup,  peel  and  core  ap- 
ples, cook  slowly  in  syrup.  Turn  often  and  keep  whole.  Remove 
apples  when  soft.  Add  hydrated  gelatine  to  syrup,  beat  until  cold. 
Cook  brown  sugar,  cream  and  butter  to  the  ball  stage,  then  add  nuts, 
beating  all  of  the  time.  Place  apples  on  serving  dish,  pour  mixture 
containing  nuts  in  centre.  Pour  syrup  around  apples.  Place  on 
ice  to  cool.      Garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA. 

y2  C.  tapioca  V2  t.  salt 

8  apples  Grated  rind  and  juice 

!/2  C.  sugar  of  one  lemon 

3  C.  boiling  water 
Cook  tapioca  in  boiling  water  until   transparent,   add  salt  and 
lemon  rind  and  sugar.      Core,  pare  and  cut  apples  into  %  inch  pieces. 
Arrange  in  baking  dish,  pour  the  lemon  juice  over  apples,  add  tapioca, 
bake  until  apples  are  tender,  add  1  T.  butter  before  takiug  from  oven. 

KICE  SURPRISE. 
1  C.  rice  1  pt.  cold  chopped  meat 

1  C.  tomato  or  white  sauce  Vo  t.  salt 

Vs  t.  pepper 
Boil  rice  in  plenty  of  water,  drain  and  line  a  mould.       Fill  with 
meat  seasoned  and  moistened  with  sauce.      Cover  with  rice.    Bake  in 
pan  of  water  40  min.      Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

VENETIAN  CAKES. 

1/2  C.  butter  3  egg  yolks 

1/2  C.  powdered  sugar  V2  C.  almonds   (enough  to 

iy2  C.  pastry  flour  put  one  on  each  cake) 

1  t.  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  till  light,  add  yokes  well  beaten,  mix 
well,  add  vanilla  and  flour.  Take  piece  of  dough,  dip  in  powdered 
sugar,  roll  into  small  ball  y2  inch  in  diameter,  press  one  almond  on 
top.  Place  balls  a  little  distance  apart  on  floured  pans.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  10  or  15  min. 

CHOCOLATE  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING. 

2  C.  milk  3  egg  whites 
6  T.  cornstarch  V2  t.  vanilla 

6  t.  sugar  1%  sq.  chocolate 

Dissolve  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold  milk.      Scald  remaining  milk. 

Add  cornstarch  solution  gradually,  stirring  all  the  time.      Place  over 

blaze  and  cook  until  slightly  thickened,  then  cook  in  double  boiler  20 

min.      Remove  from  fire,  add  egg  whites  beaten  stiff.       Turn  1-3  of 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  179 

mixture   in   separate   dish,   add   melted   chocolate.       Add   vanilla  to 
white  mixture.      Put  layer  of  white  in  a  mould,  then  chocolate,  then 
a  white  layer.      Serve  with  cream  or  chocolate  sauce, 
thick. 

RAISIN  SAUCE. 

1  C.  boiling  water  2  T.  sugar 

1  C.  chopped  raisins  1  T.  cornstarch 

Mix  cornstarch  with  sugar,  add  water,  raisins,  and  cook  until 
thick. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 
Hydrate  1-3  box  gelatine  in  3  C.  milk  for  1  hour,  then  put  on  stove 
and  when  hot  stir  in  3  egg  yolks  and  %  0.  sugar.       When  milk  is 
scalding  stir  in  3  egg  whites  beaten  stiff,  flavor  with   y2  t.  lemon. 
Mould. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

2  C.  coffee  1  C.  sugar 

1  C.  boiling  water  2y2  T.  gelatine 

!/4  C.  cold  water 
Hydrate  gelatine  in  cold  water.      Put  coffee  and  boiling  water  in 
sauce  pan,  bring  to  boiling  point.      Place  gelatine  over  steam  of  tea 
kettle  or  in  hot  water  to  dissolve,  add  to  coffee  and  add  sugar.  Mould. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

y2  C.  sugar  1  T.  cornstarch 

1  C.  boiling  water  1  T.  butter 

14  t.  lemon  extract 
Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch,  add  boiling  water.      Cook  5  min.,  add 
butter  and  lemon  extract. 

NOUGAT  FROSTING. 

1  C.  chopped  almonds  1  C.  sugar 

4  T.  sugar  1-3  C.  boiling  water 

2  egg  whites 

Brown  almonds  in  oven,  caramelize  4  T.  sugar,  add  almonds,  cool 
and  pound.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads,  add  almonds 
powdered,  pour  onto  beaten  whites  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to 
spread. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD. 
2  C.  milk  2  egg  yolks 

1/2  C.  sugar  14  t.  salt 

2  T.  cornstarch  y2  t.  vanilla 

2  T.  grated  chocolate 


180  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Cook  chocolate  with  milk  until  milk  is  scalded.  Mix  cornstarch 
with  sugar,  add  egg  yolks  beaten  slightly,  mix,  pour  over  scalded  milk, 
cook  until  spoon  is  coated.      When  cool  add  vanilla. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

3  C.  milk  1  T.  vanilla 

1  egg  1  jar  cream 

1  C.  sugar  y8  t.  salt 

Scald  milk,  mix  y2  C.  sugar  and  egg  and  salt.  Pour  milk  over 
sugar  and  egg.  Caramelize  y2  C.  sugar  and  add  very  slowly  to  hot 
custard.      Cool,  flavor,  add  cream  and  freeze. 

TO  CAEAMELTZE  SUGAR. 
Put  sugar  in  sauce-pan,  place  on  stove,  stir  constantly  until  melt- 
ed and  of  the  color  of  maple  syrup. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

Use  recipe  for  vanilla  ice  cream,  and  add  2  squares  melted  choco- 
late.     Put  chocolate  in  milk  when  scalding  to  make  the  custard. 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE. 
Wipe,  pare  and  core  apples,  cut  in  small  pieces.      Add  %  C.  wa- 
ter to  prevent  apples  from  sticking  to  pan.      Put  in  covered  dish  and 
cook  until  apples  are  of  a  reddish  color. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

%  C.  powdered  sugar  1  sq.  chocolate 

Milk  to  make  a  thick  paste  14  t.  vanilla 

Melt  cholocate,  add  enough  milk  to  sugar  to  make  of  consistency 
to  spread,  add  chocolate  and  vanilla. 

APPLE  SNOW. 
Whites  3  eggs  %  C.  apple  sauce 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Put  apple  sauce  through  sieve,  add 
slowly  to  egg  whites,  beat  thoroughly.  Pile  lightly  in  glass  dish. 
Serve  with  custard. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 
1/2  C.  butter  1%  C.  flour  (pastry) 

1  C.  sugar  2y2  t.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  2  sqs.  chocolate 
V2  C.  milk  1/2  t.  vanilla 

Directions :  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  the  egg 
yolks  beaten  light.  Add  milk,  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder,  and 
beat  well.      Add  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla.       Fold  in  egg  whites 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  181 

beaten  stiff.       Bake  40  to  60  minutes  in  slow  oven.       Melt  chocolate 
over  hot  water. 

PINEAPPLE  SHELL  AND  FRUIT. 

Cut  off  top  of  pineapple.  With  sharp  knife  or  spoon  scoop  out 
pulp;  keep  it  as  whole  as  possible.  Refill  shell  with  shredded  pine- 
apple, using  a  silver  fork  to  shred  it.  Mix  with  strawberries,  oranges 
or  any  desired  fruit.  Serve  cold.  Sprinkle  sugar  over  fruit  to 
sweeten.      Garnish  with  the  leaves  of  the  crown. 

OKANGE  CKEAM. 

y2  C.  orange  juice  114  T.  gelatine 

y2  C.  sugar  14  C.  cold  water 

2  egg  yolks  iy2  C.  cream 

%  C.  sugar  Grated  rind  of  orange 

Heat  orange  juice  and  %  C.  sugar  (if  oranges  are  sweet  add 
less  sugar)  over  hot  water,  mix  %  C.  sugar  with  yolks,  add  juice  to 
mixture;  cook  until  spoon  is  coated,  add  hydrated  gelatine  and  grated 
rind.      Cool,  fold  in  cream  slightly  beaten.      Turn  into  mould. 

BAKED  CUSTABD. 

4  C.  scalded  milk  y2  C.  sugar 

4  eggs  14  t.  salt 

Scald  milk.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  salt  and  sugar.  Pour  milk 
on  to  eggs.  Strain  in  buttered  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  in  slow  oven  until  firm,  which  may  be  tested  with  a  silver  knife; 
if  knife  comes  out  clean,  custard  is  done. 

SPONGE  DROPS. 

3  eggs  %  t.  salt 
1-3  C.  powdered  sugar                         14  t.  vanilla 
1-3  C.  flour 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  continue  beating. 
Add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  till  lemon  color — and  flavoring.  Cut  and 
fold  in  flour  mixed  with  salt.  Drop  from  top  of  spoon  on  unbuf- 
fered paper — sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
8  or  10  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  SPANISH  CREAM. 

1%  T-  gelatine  2  C.  scalded  milk 

%  C.  cold  water  y2  C.  sugar 

2  eggs  1  t.  vanilla 

1  sq.  chocolate 
Hydrate  gelatine,  let  stand  y2  hour.       Scald  milk,  add  gelatine; 
stir  till  dissolved;  separate  eggs.       Beat  yolks  till  thick,  add  sugar, 


182  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

pour  milk  on  to  mixture,  melt  chocolate,  add  to  milk,  cook  as  for  cus- 
tard. Eemove  from  fire,  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Place  in 
pan  of  water.      Beat  till  rather  thick.      Pour  in  mould. 

BLACK  COFFEE  OR  CAFE  NOIR. 
Use  1  T.  to  each  cup  1  C.  water  to  each  cup 

Place  coffee  in  coffee  pot,  pour  over  boiling  water.  Boil  3  min. 
Decant  coffee  and  add  y2  C.  cold  water  to  clear  it. 


TEA  PRETSELS. 

1-3  C.  butter 

iy2  C.  flour 

1  egg 

f.  g.  salt 

%  C.  sugar 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  well  beaten  and  sifted  flour.  Let 
mixture  stand  1  hour,  if  possible.  Break  off  pieces,  roll  in  lead  pen- 
cil shape,  bring  ends  together  to  centre  of  dough,  pressing  them  down 
onto  it.  Brush  top  with  beaten  egg.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Al- 
monds may  be  sprinkled  on  top. 

BAKED  INDIAN  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

3  T.  tapioca  2  T.  butter 

3  T.  Indian  meal  1  qt.  milk 

2-3  C.  molasses  2  t.  salt 

y2  C.  sugar 
Soak  tapioca  1  hour,  add  to  boiling  milk,  cook  15  minutes.      Mix 
meal,  molasses,  sugar,  butter  and  salt  together,  add  to  milk.  Cook  till 
thickened,  stirring  often.       When  cool  add  egg  slightly  beaten  if  de- 
sired.     Bake  3  hours  in  moderate  oven.      Serve  with  cream. 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE. 
1  egg  white  1  C.  fruit  juice  and  pulp 

y2  C.  sugar  1  C.  cream 

Beat  egg  white  stiff,  add  sugar.  Beat  cream  slightly,  gradually 
add  fruit  juice  and  pulp.  Beat  till  firm  to  bottom  of  bowl.  Com- 
bine mixtures.      Pack  4  hours  in  equal  proportions  of  ice  and  salt. 

FIG  TOAST. 
Wash  carefully  and  cook  in  boiling  water  half  a  pound  of  pulled 
figs  until  tender;  add  one-fourth  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Cook  until  the  syrup  is  well  reduced.  Cut 
the  crust  from  a  thick  slice  of  bread  and  saute  to  a  golden  brown,  first 
on  one  side,  then  on  the  other,  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  butter. 
Drain  the  bread  on  soft  paper;  then  heap  the  figs  upon  it,  cover 
with  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  thick  cream  and  a  scant  fourth  of  a  cup 
of  sugar  beaten  until  stiff.      Serve  at  once.      Prunes,  apricots,  peaches 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  183 

or  pears,  or  strawberry  preserves  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  man- 
ner. If  preserves  be  used,  omit  sugar  from  the  cream.  Sponge  cake 
may  be  used  in  place  of  bread. 

PINEAPPLE  SPONGE. 
Heat  one  pint  of  grated  pineapple  over  hot  water;  sprinkle  into 
it  half  a  cup  of  fine  tapioca  (a  quick  cooking  kind),  mixed  with  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  when  the  tapi- 
oca is  transparent,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  fold  in  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  until  dry.       Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 


Sweet  Jellies 

LEMON  JELLY. 

%  box  or  1  oz.  gelatine  1  cupful  of  sugar 

y2  cupful  of  cold  water  Juice  of  3  lemons,  filtered 

2  cupfuls  of  boiling  water  Thin  slices  of  lemon-rind 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  one-half  cupful  of  cold  water  for  one  hour 
or  more.  Put  the  boiling  water,  the  sugar  and  a  few  thin  slices  of 
lemon-peel  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
add  the  soaked  gelatine,  and  stir  until  that  also  is  dissolved;  then  re- 
move, and  when  it  is  partly  cooled  add  the  lemon-juice.  Strain  it 
through  a  felt  or  flannel,  and  turn  it  into  the  mould.  This  will  make 
one  quart  of  jelly. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

Use  the  recipe  for  lemon  jelly,  using  three-fourths  cup  of  strong 
filtered  coffee  instead  of  lemon.  Mould  in  a  ring  and  fill  the  centre 
with  whipped  cream. 


WHIPPED  JELLY,  OK  SNOW  PUDDING. 

Make  a  lemon  jelly.  Place  it  in  a  bowl  on  ice;  when  it  is  cold, 
but  before  it  begins  to  harden,  beat  it  with  a  Dover  beater  until  it 
becomes  white  and  a  mass  of  froth.  Turn  it  into  a  mould  to  harden. 
Serve  with  it  a  sauce  made  of  boiled  custard,  or  any  preserve  that  will 
go  well  with  flavoring,  or  a  compote  of  orange  or  any  fruit. 

KUSSIAN  JELLIES. 

For  these  double  moulds  are  used. 
No.  1.     Make  the  outside  layer  of  any  transparent  jelly.      When  hard, 

remove  the  inner  mould  and  fill  the  space  with  the  same  jelly 

whipped  until  foamy. 
No.  2.     The  outside  of  transparent  jelly,  the  inside  one  of  different 

color  and  flavor,  such  as  champagne  and  maraschino  colored  pink, 

orange  and  strawberry,  lemon  and  coffee. 
No.  3.     The  outside  champagne  jelly,  the  inside  whipped  jelly,  with 

macedoine  of  fruits. 
No.  4.     The  outside  fruits  in  clear  jelly,  the  inside  Bavarian  cream. 
No.  5.     Maraschino  jelly,  centre  Bavarian  cream  mixed  with  crushed 

peaches  or  with  apricot  jam. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK. 


185 


SPANISH  CEEAM. 


y2  c.  sugar  (scant) 
14  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla,  or  3  tbl. 
wine 


%  box  gelatine,  or  1  tbl. 
granulated  gelatine 

3  cups  milk 

Whites  3  eggs 

Yolks  3  eggs 
Scald  milk  with  gelatine;  add  sugar;  pour  slowly  on  yolks  of 
eggs  slightly  beaten.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
thickened,  stirring  constantly;  remove  from  range,  add  salt,  flavoring, 
and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into  individual  moulds  first 
dipped  in  cold  water,  and  chill ;  serve  with  cream.  More  gelatine  will 
be  required  if  large  moulds  are  used. 


Bavarian  Creams 

PLAIN  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

1  pt.  cream  whipped  1/2  box,  or  1  oz.  of  gelatine 

1  pt.  cream  or  milk  soked  in  i/2  c.  water 

y2  c.  sugar  X/2  vanilla  bean,  or  1  tsp. 

Yolks  4  eggs  vanilla  extract 

%  saltspoon  salt 
Whip  one  pint  of  cream  and  stand  it  aside  to  drain.  Scald  one 
pint  of  cream  or  milk  with  the  vanilla  bean  split  in  two;  remove  it 
from  the  fire,  and  turn  it  slowly,  stirring  all  the  time,  on  the  yolks, 
which  have  been  beaten  with  the  sugar  and  salt  to  a  cream.  Be  turn 
it  to  the  fire  a  moment  to  set  the  egg,  but  take  it  off  the  fire  the  mo- 
ment it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  he  soaked  gelaine  and  flavoring 
(if  the  bean  has  not  been  used).  Stir  until  the  gelatine  has  been  dis- 
solved, then  pass  it  through  a  sieve.  When  it  is  cold  and  beginning 
to  set,  whip  it  a  few  moments  with  a  Dover  beater,  and  then  mix  in 
lightly  the  whipped  cream  and  turn  it  in  a  mould  to  harden.  Avoid 
using  any  of  the  cream  which  has  turned  to  liquid.  This  cream 
should  have  a  spongy  texture. 

CHOCOLATE  BAVARIAN. 

Use  the  recipe  given  above  for  plain  Bavarian.  Melt  two  ounces 
of  chocolate  and  dissolve  it  in  a'  little  milk ;  add  this  to  the  custard 
mixture  before  the  gelatine. 

RICE  BAVARIAN. 
(Or  Riz  a  L'Imperatrice.) 
Put  into  a  double  boiler  one  and  a  half  pints  of  milk  and  a  few 
thin  cuts  of  lemon-zest;  when  it  boils,  stir  in  one-half  cupful  of  well- 
washed  rice  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt.  Cook  until  the  rice  is  perfectly 
tender.  The  milk  should  be  nearly  boiled  away,  leaving  the  rice 
very  moist.  Then  add  or  mix  in  carefully  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and 
a  quarter  of  a  box,  or  one  half  ounce,  of  gelatine  which  has  soaked  in 
a  half  a  cupful  of  cold  water  one  hour,  and  then  melted  by  placing 
the  cup  containing  it  in  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes.  W^hen  the 
mixture  is  partly  cold,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  each  of  maraschino 
and  of  sherry,  or  of  sherry  alone,  or  of  any  other  flavoring.  When  it 
is  beginning  to  set,  stir  in  lightly  one-half  pint  or  more  of  well-whipped 
cream,  and  turn  it  into  a  mould.      This  is  a  very  white  dish,  and  is  a 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  187 

delicious  dessert.  It  may  be  served  alone  or  with  orange  jelly  cut 
into  croutons,  or  with  orange  compote,  or  with  plain  or  whipped 
cream. 

APPLE  SNOW. 

Whites  3  eggs  Few  cubes  of  jelly 

%  C.  apple  sauce 
Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.      Put  apple  sauce  through  sieve,  add 
slowly  to  egg  whites,  beat  thoroughly.       Pile  lightly  in  glass  dish. 
Serve  with  custard. 


Frozen  Desserts 


Classification  (Farmer). 

I.  Water  Ice.    Fruit  juice  sweetened,  diluted  with  water  and  frozen. 

II.  Sherbet.      Water  ice,  to  which  is  added  a  small  quantity  of  dis- 

solved gelatine  or  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

III.  Frappe.      Water  ice  frozen  to  consistency  of  mush  in  freezing, 

equal  parts  salt  and  ice  being  used  to  make  it  granular. 

IV.  Punch.      Water  ice,  to  which  are  added  spirit  and  spice. 

V.  Sorbet.        Strictly   speaking,   frozen    punch;    the    name   is   often 

given  to  a  water  ice  where  several  kinds  of  fruit  are  used. 

VI.  Philadelphia  Ice  Cream.       Thin  cream,  sweetened,  flavored  and 

frozen. 

VII.  Plain  Ice  Cream.  Custard  foundation,  thin  cream  and  flavoring. 

VIII.  Mousse.  Heavy  cream  beaten  until  stiff,  sweetened,  flavored, 
placed  in  a  mould,  packed  in  equal  parts  ice  and  salt,  and  al- 
lowed to  stand  three  hours. 

How  to  Freeze  Desserts. 

For  ice  Cream,  Sherbet,  Water  Ice.  Allow  three  measures  of  ice 
to  one  measure  of  salt. 

For  Frappe.      Equal  parts  ice  and  salt. 

For  Mousse.      Four  parts  ice  to  one  part  salt. 

To  Line  a  Mould. 

Allow  mould  to  stand  in  salt  and  ice  until  well  chilled.  Kemove 
cover,  put  in  mixture  by  spoonfuls,  and  spread  with  back  of  spoon 
or  case  knife,  evenly,  three-quarters  inch  thick. 

To  Mould  Frozen  Mixtures. 

When  frozen  mixtures  are  to  be  bricked  or  moulded,  avoid  freez- 
ing too  hard.  Pack  mixture  solidly  in  moulds  and  cover  with  but- 
tered paper,  buttered  side  up.  Have  mould  so  well  filled  that  mix- 
ture is  forced  down  sides  of  mould  when  cover  is  pressed  down.  Re- 
pack in  ice  and  salt,  using  four  parts  ice  to  one  of  salt. 

WATER  ICE. 

(a)  2  c.  water,  1  c.  sugar;  boil;  add  1  tsp.  granulated  gelatine 
dissolved  in  water. 

(b)  4  egg  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  flavoring. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  189 

Beat  a  until  cold;  add  ~b,  pack  and  freeze;  stirring  constantly; 
cover  and  ripen  from  two  to  four  hours. 

With  Lemons.      Add  juice  of  three  lemons  to  a. 

With  Oranges.  Add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  oranges  and 
juice  of  one  lemon  to  a. 

With  Peaches.  Add  six  very  ripe  peaches  mashed  and  juice  of 
one  lemon  to  a. 

With  Pineapple.  Add  one  pint  pineapple  pressed  through 
colander  and  juice  of  one  lemon  to  a. 

With  Eed  Kaspberries.  Add  one  quart  red  raspberries  mashed 
fine  and  juice  of  three  lemons  to  a. 


ICE  CREAM  NOTES 

To  make  ice  cream  in  bricks  of  fancy  shapes  of  any  kind,  first 
make  it  in  an  ordinary  freezer  in  the  usual  way.  Next  prepare  the 
moulds  to  be  used;  fill  each  with  ice  water  (it  is  not  necessary  to  fix 
the  cover  in  this  way),  and  allow  to  stand  for  some  time — perhaps 
half  an  hour.  Then  remove  the  cold  water  and  pack  each  mould 
solidly  with  the  frozen  ice  cream.  Fill  to  overflowing  and  then 
scrape  off  perfectly  level  with  a  case  knife,  so  that  the  cover  will  fit 
down  snugly. 

After  fitting  cover  on  tightly,  cover  the  joining  of  the  cover  and 
mould  with  lard;  then  tie  a  narrow  strip  of  cotton  cloth  over  it.  If 
there  are  any  dents  in  the  mould  where  there  is  even  the  least  danger 
of  the  rock  salt  getting  into  the  cream,  treat  them  in  the  same  way 
with  lard.  All  this  precaution  is  to  keep  the  rock  salt  from  getting 
into  the  cream,  for  there  is  nothing  quite  so  disagreeable  as  to  taste  a 
bit  of  salt  mixed  in  with  the  ice  cream. 

Next  pack  the  mould  or  moulds  in  chipped  ice  and  rock  salt  as 
with  the  freezer  and  allow  to  stand  for  about  an  hour  or  more. 

When  removing,  one  will  find  the  strip  of  cloth  and  the  lard 
frozen  to  the  mould ;  but  this  can  be  easily  pulled  off.  To  remove  the 
cream  from  the  mould,  dip  a  cloth  in  hot  water,  wring  it  out  slightly, 
and  apply  to  the  outside  of  the  mould  for  just  a  minute.  Have  the 
cloth  very  hot.  The  cream  should  slip  out  easily;  but,  if  necessary, 
repeat  the  application  of  the  hot  cloth. 

Ice  cream  in  individual  moulds  is  called  glace,  as  strawberry  ice 
cream  glace. 

A  pretty  way  is  to  use  a  baking  powder  box  as  a  mould;  this 
makes  a  pretty  shape  and  the  ice  cream  can  be  cut  into  individual 
slices  at  the  table. 

An   attractive  pistachio   ice   cream   was   made  in  this   way   and 


190  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

sliced  at  the  table.  On  each  individual  serving  was  poured  a  sauce 
made  of  fresh  strawberries  with  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  and  orange 
added.  This  with  the  pistachio  ice  cream  made  a  delicious  com- 
bination. 

Orange  and  lemon  with  strawbberry  give  the  same  effect  as  wine 
in  sauces  of  any  kind.  While  it  does  not  taste  the  same  exactly,  yet  it 
takes  the  place  of  it  splendidly,  having  a  bright,  piquant  flavor.  It  is, 
of  course,  customary  to  serve  claret  on  sultana  roll.  This  sauce 
could  well  be  used  as  a  substitute. 

Of  course  the  pistachio  ice  cream  had  to  be  colored.  Strawberry 
and  raspberry  ice  cream  always  have  to  be  colored.  There  is  one  point 
which  must  be  remembered  in  coloring  ice-creams  or  any  frozen 
dainty,  always  color  it  two  or  three  shades  darker  than  desired,  for  it 
it  sure  to  freeze  out  quite  a  bit  lighter. 

Bomb  ice  cream  is  made  in  a  mould  the  shape  of  half  a  melon,  the 
flat  side  always  being  placed  downward  on  the  platter.  The  outside 
is  made  of  some  kind  of  ice  cream  or  sherbet,  while  the  centre  is  made 
of  whipped  cream,  or  beaten  egg  whites  frozen. 

The  mould  is  prepared  in  the  method  above  described;  hence  the 
inside  is  lined  with  ice  cream  or  sherbet,  say  raspberry,  to  about  an 
inch  or  an  inch  and  a  half  deep.  The  raspberry  ice  cream,  of  course, 
has  been  previously  made  in  an  ordinary  freezer.  After  the  mould 
has  been  thus  lined,  fill  up  the  remaining  space  with  whipped  cream 
which  has  not  yet  been  frozen.  Even  off  the  top  of  the  mould  with  a 
case  knife. 

Close  the  mould  with  the  cover,  apply  the  lard  and  the  strip  of 
white  cotton  cloth  around  the  joining,  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt.  Let 
stand  about  one  hour,  as  above  advised.  This  second  freezing,  as  it 
might  be  called,  is  what  freezes  the  whipped  cream  in  the  centre  of 
the  bomb. 

FRENCH  ICE  CREAM. 

(a)  One  pint  hot  milk;  pour  slowly  over  four  egg-yolks  beaten 
stiff  with  one  cup  sugar;  dash  salt. 

(b)  Whites  four  eggs  beaten  stiff;  flavoring. 

(c)  One  cup  cream  whipped  stiff. 

Cook  a  until  it  coats  the  spoon ;  remove  from  fire,  add  h,  beat  un- 
til cold;  add  c  and  freeze. 

PHILADELPHIA  ICE  CREAM. 

(a)  Three  cups  cream  and  one  cup  milk,  or  one  quart  thin 
cream,  scant  cup  sugar  and  dash  salt. 

(b)  Flavoring. 

Scald  a,  but  do  not  boil ;  beat  until  cold ;  add  b  and  freeze.  These 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  191 

creams  may  be  removed  from  freezer,  put  in  moulds,  packed  in  ice 
and  salt,  covered,  and  allowed  two  to  five  hours  to  ripen.  One  pound 
baking-powder  boxes  make  very  pretty  moulds,  and  are  quite  con- 
venient for  serving  in  slices. 

CROQUETTES  OF  ICE-CREAM. 

(a)  Philadelphia  Ice  Cream  or  French  Ice  Cream. 

(b)  One  cup  almonds  chopped  fine,  and  browned  in  oven. 

(c)  Pistachio  sauce. 

Freeze  a  very  hard ;  take  out  with  an  ice  cream  scoop  which  forms 
a  pyramid;  roll  these  in  b;  put  on  plates  and  surround  with  c,  and 
serve. 

PISTACHIO  SAUCE. 

(a)  One  cup  sugar,  one  scant  tablespoon  arrowroot,  two  cups 
boiling  water. 

(b)  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  one-half  teaspoon  bitter  almond  extract, 
or  use  pistachio  flavoring,  and  one-half  cup  chopped  pistachio  nuts,  or 
two  tablespoons  maraschino. 

Boil  a  five  minutes,  add  b,  color  pale  green  with  Burnett's  paste. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

WHITE  OR  ANGEL  ICE  CREAM. 

Whites  6  eggs  1  tbl.  hot  syrup 

1  c.  powdered  sugar  2  tbl.  noyau  or  orange 

1  pint  cream  flower  water 

Italian  meringue  made  of 
whites  2  eggs 
Break  whites  of  eggs,  but  do  not  beat  them  to  a  froth;  stir  into 
them  the  sugar,  then  add  cream.  Scald  in  double  boiler;  remove  from 
fire  and  stir  until  cold ;  then  add  flavoring,  and  freeze.  When  frozen, 
remove  dasher,  stir  in  Italian  meringue,  turn  into  a  mould  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  two  or  three  hours.  This  cream  requires  a  little 
longer  to  freeze  than  the  other  creams. 

ITALIAN  MERINGUE. 
Whip  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  beat  into  them  slowly  some 
boiling  syrup  cooked  to  the  ball. 

FRUIT  ICE  CREAMS. 
Berries  or  any  kind  of  larger  fruit  cut  into  small  pieces  may  be 
added  to  any  of  the  vanilla  creams  after  they  are  frozen.      Remove 
the  paddle,  mix  the  fruit  in  well ;  then  mould  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt 


192  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

for  one  or  two  hours.      The  fruit  will  become  too  solid  if  packed  for 
a  long  time. 

WHITE  PAKFAIT. 

(a)  One  cup  sugar  and  one  cup  water;  cook  until  it  spins  a 
thread;  add  slowly  to  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  very  stiff. 

(b)  One  pint  cream,  whipped  very  stiff;  flavoring. 

Beat  a  thoroughly  until  cold;  add  b,  mix  thoroughly,  turn  into 
moulds,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  from  four  to  five  hours. 

CARAMEL  MOUSSE. 

Stir  one  cup  sugar  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  constantly  until  it 
reaches  the  caramel  stage.  Do  not  let  it  become  too  brown  or  it  will 
be  bitter.  Let  it  cool  a  little,  then  add  one  cup  hot  water  or  milk 
and  stir  (over  hot  water,  if  milk  is  used),  until  the  hardened  caramel 
dissolves.  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  thick,  add  a  little  of 
the  hot  caramel  mixture,  and,  when  well  mixed  with  the  eggs,  stir  into 
the  rest  of  the  mixture  and  continue  stirring  until  the  spoon  is  coated. 
Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  beat  until  cold  and  light;  then 
fold  into  it  the  whip  from  three  cups  cream,  drained  and  chilled. 
Turn  into  a  quart  mould,  filling  to  overflowing.  Press  down  the 
cover  over  a  piece  of  clean  wrapping  paper  somewhat  larger  than  the 
cover.      Bury  the  mould  in  equal  parts  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand. 

MOUSSE. 

(a)  One  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine;  dissolve  in  one-fourth 
cup  water;  add  three-fourths  cup  powdered  sugar,  dash  salt. 

(b)  Two  cups  cream  whipped  very  stiff;  flavoring. 

Stir  a  until  cool;  strain  gradually  into  b,  mix  thoroughly,  fill 
moulds,  pack  in  ice  and  salt,  cover  from  two  to  four  hours  to  ripen. 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE. 
1  qt.  thin  cream  l1/^  tbl.  gran,  gelatine 

1  box  strawberries  2  tbl.  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  3  tbl.  hot  water 

14  box  gelatine  (scant),  or 
Wash  and  hull  berries;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  let  stand  one 
hour;  mash  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve;  add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold 
water  and  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Set  mixture  in  pan  of  ice  wa- 
ter and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken ;  then  fold  in  whip  from  cream, 
put  in  mould,  cover,  pack  in  equal  parts  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  four 
hours.     Raspberries  may  be  used  in  place  of  strawberries. 

Fore  Coffee  Mousse  use  one  cup  boiled  coffee  in  place  of  straw- 
berry juice. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  193 

MAESHMALLOW  FEUIT  CREAM. 

1  C.  walnut  meats 
small  pieces  y2  lb.  malaga  grapes 

1  pineapple,  or  1  can  pine-  5  oranges 

apple  2  jars  cream 

Cut  marshmallows  in  small  pieces  with  scissors,  cut  grapes  in 
half,  remove  seeds.      Cut  pineapple  into  small  pieces  and  also  oranges. 
Place  all  together  and  place  near  ice,  add    nuts    and    whipped 
cream.      Serve  cold,  garnish  with  cream. 

BISCUIT  GLACE. 
Dissolve  two  cups  granulated  sugar  in  one  cup  boiling  water;  put 
over  the  fire  and  boil  slowly  until  the  syrup  will  spin  a  short  thread. 
Pour  it  slowly  over  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  until 
very  light;  return  to  the  fire  and  stir  for  two  minutes,  or  until  the 
mixture  will  slightly  coat  the  bowl  of  the  spoon.  Strain  in  a  bowl 
and  set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  whip  with  long,  even  strokes  until 
the  mixture  is  cold  and  spongy  in  texture.  Add  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  four  tablespoons  sherry,  or  two  tablespoons  maraschino;  whip 
for  five  minutes  longer,  then  stir  in  lightly  one  pint  thick  cream 
whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Fill  a  mould  with  this  cream,  bind  with  a 
strip  of  buttered  cloth  and  pack  in  ice. 

GINGER  ICE  CREAM. 

!/2  t.  vanilla  sherry  wine 

!/2  C.  Canton  ginger  cut  in  or  1  T.  powdered  ginger  and 

small  pieces  2  T.  wine. 

3  T.  ginger  syrup  or  2  T. 

Add  to  vanilla  ice  cream  and  freeze. 

PISTACHIO  SAUCE. 

1%  C.  scalded  milk  Coloring  paste 

1  T.  flour  1  egg 

V2  C.  sugar  1-16  t.  salt 

V2  t.  vanilla  y2  C.  cream 

y±  lb.  pistachio  nuts  3  drops  almond 

Scald  milk,  mix  flour,  sugar.       Add  slowly  to  milk.       Add  egg 

beaten  slightly.      Add  cream,  cook  20  minutes  in  double  boiler.  Cool, 

add  flavoring,  nuts  and  green  coloring  paste. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  SHERBET. 

4  C.  water  Juice  1  lemon 

2  C.  sugar  1  pt.  grapefruit  juice 
1  T.  granulated  gelatine 


194  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  20  rnin.,  add  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked 
in  water.      Beat  till  cold,  add  fruit  juice  and  freeze. 


BOMB  GLACE. 

Beat  one  egg  white  until  stiff,  add  1-3  C.  powdered  sugar  and 
beat,  flavor.  Fold  in  y2  C.  cream  beaten  stiff.  Color  if  desired.  Gar- 
nish with  nuts  or  fruit  juices. 


WATERMELON  BOMBE  GLACE. 

Lining  for  Mould. 

5  C.  water  1  T.  gelatine 

2  C.  sugar  Juice  3  lemons 

Directions. 

Hydrate  the  gelatine  in  ^4  C.  of  the  cold  water,  mix  sugar  and 
balance  of  water,  boil  20  minutes ;  remove  from  fire,  add  hydrated  gela- 
tine; beat  until  cold  and  add  strained  lemon  juice.  Freeze  to  a 
spongy  condition,  reserve  1-3  part  and  color  green. 

Filling  for  Centre.  ]/4  C.  sultana  raisins 

iy2  C.  cream  dipped  in  brandy 

1-3  C.  sugar  Color  this  pink 

1  egg  white  Pack  and  freeze 

Directions  No.  2. 

Use  melon  shaped  mould,  spread  green  lining,  then  white,  fill  cen- 
tre with  pink  filling.  Pack  and  freeze,  using  3  parts  ice  to  one  of 
rock  salt.  Let  stand  4  hours.  Dip  mould  quickly  in  warm  water. 
Turn  out.  Cut  horizontally  and  serve  in  V  shaped  pieces  to  include 
all  colors. 

MILK  SHERBET. 

4  cups  milk  iy2  cups  sugar 

Juice  3  lemons 
Mix  juice  and  sugar,  stirring  constantly     while    adding     milk. 
Freeze. 

MARSHMALLOW  ICE  CREAM. 
1  cup  sugar  3  egg  whites 

i/4  cup  water  1  1-3  cups  cream 

1/2  lb.  marshmallows  1  t.  vanilla 

Boil  sugar  and  water  till  it  threads;  add  marshmallows.  When 
partially  melted,  beat  with  egg  beater  till  smooth.  Pour  this  on  3  egg 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Beat  till  cold.  Add  flavoring,  fold  in  1  1-3  cups 
cream  beaten  stiff.      Freeze. 


laboratory  cook  book.  195 

m;aple  paefait. 

y2  cup  hot  maple  syrup  y2  pt.  thick  cream 

2  egg  yolks 
Beat  eggs  slightly.       Pour  on  slowly  the  maple  syrup,  beating 
constantly  till  mixture  thickens.       Cool  and  add  cream  beaten  stiff. 
Mould  and  pack  in  equal  parts  rock  salt  and  ice.      Let  stand  3  hours. 

MERINGUES  GLACES. 

Whites  4  eggs  114  cups  powdered  sugar 

y2  t  vanilla 
Beat  whites  until  stiff,  add  slowly  2-3  cup  of  sugar.     Continue 
beating  until  mixture  will  hold  its  shape.      Fold  in  remaining  sugar. 
Add  flavoring.       Shape  with  pastry  bag.       Bake  in  slow  oven. 

FRENCH  ICE  CREAM. 

2  cups  hot  milk  4  egg  yolks 

1  cup  sugar  4  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff 

1  cup  cream  whipped  stiff 
Scald  milk,  mix  yolks  and  sugar,  pour  over  milk,  cook  till  it  coats 
the  spoon.      Remove  from  fire,  fold  in  egg  whites ;  cool ;  add  cream  and 
freeze. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM. 

3  C.  milk  2  eggs 

1  jar  cream  1%  sq.  chocolate 

1  C.  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

PLAIN  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 
t  pt.  cream  whipped  Yolks  4  eggs 

1  pt.  cream  or  milk  y2  box  or  1  oz  gelatine 

y2  cup  sugar  %  cup  cold  water 

y2  ss.  salt  1  t.  vanilla 

Whip  one  pint  cream  and  stand  it  aside  to  drain.  Scald  1  pint 
milk,  remove  from  fire,  turn  it  slowly  on  yolks  which  have  been  beat- 
en with  sugar,  and  salt  to  a  cream.  Return  to  fire  to  set  egg.  Add 
soaked  gelatine  and  flavoring.  When  gelatine  is  dissolved,  strain. 
Cool.  Whip  with  Dover  egg  beater,  fold  in  whipped  cream.  Turn 
in  mould.      Avoid  using  cream  which  has  turned  to  liquid. 

PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE. 

1  cup  pineapple  14  cup  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  jar  cream 
i/4  cup  cold  water  beaten  stiff 

2  T.  gelatine  2  egg  yolks 


196  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Hydrate  gelatine  in  y±  cup  water.  Scald  pineapple.  Make 
syrup  of  sugar  and  water;  cook  until  it  hairs.  Beat  egg  yolks,  cool 
syrup  slightly,  add  dissolved  gelatine,  pour  syrup  on  yolks,  beat,  add 
pineapple  and  when  cold  fold  in  cream.      Pack  in  ice  and  salt. 

CHOCOLATE  MOUSSE. 
Yolks  2  eggs  y2  cup  cold  water 

1  T.  gelatine  2  sq.  chocolate. 

y4  cup  cold  water  iy2  cups  cream 

1  cup  sugar 
Hydrate  gelatine.     Mix  sugar  with  y>  cup  water.      Cook  until  it 
hairs.       Beat  eggs  slightly,  beat  cream.       Turn  syrup  mixture  slowly 
on  eggs,  beating  all  the  time.       Add  gelatine.       Melt  chocolate  and 
add  to  this  mixture.       Beat  until  cold,  then  fold  in  cream.       Chill. 

JELLY  JUMBLES. 

1  egg  3  T.  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  V2  t.  soda 

14  cup  butter  Pastry  flour  to  roll 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  well  beaten.  Sift  soda  into  sour 
milk.  Add  milk  alternately  with  flour.  Koll  thin.  Cut  in  two 
layers.  Spread  one-half  with  jelly,  on  other  half  cut  3  rings.  Put 
layers  with  openings  on  top  of  jelly  layer.  Moisten  edges,  press 
together,  bake. 

COFFEE  ICE  CBEAM. 

21/2  C.  milk  1/2  C.  coffee 

1 14  C.  sugar  V8  t.  salt 

2  egg  yolks  1  jar  cream 

Scald  milk  with  coffee,  mix  sugar,  eggs  and  salt  together,  pour 
milk  over.      Cook  as  for  custard. 

MACAROON  CREAM. 

1V2  T.  granulated  gelatine  1-3  C.  sugar 

14  C.  cold  water  %  t.  salt 

2  C.  scalded  milk  2-:*  C.  pounded  macaroons 

3  egg  whites  1  t.  Vanilla 
3  egg  yolks 

Soak  gelatine  in  water,  make  custard  of  milk,  eggs,  sugar  and 
salt.  Add  dissolved  gelatine,  add  macaroons  and  flavoring,  stirring 
until  it  thickens,  then  add  whites  of  egg  beaten  stiff.       Mould. 


Sugar  Cookery— Confections 


Sugar  tests. 

1. 

Small  thread,  215°   F. 

rr 
t  . 

Soft  ball,  238° 

2. 

Large  thread,  217° 

8. 

Hard  ball,  248° 

3. 

Pearl,  220° 

9. 

Small  crack,  290° 

4. 

Large  pearl,  222° 

10. 

Crack,  310° 

5. 

The  blow,  223° 

11. 

Caramel,  350° 

6. 

The  feather,  232° 

GENEEAL  DIEECTIONS  FOE  MAKING  FONDANT. 

Fondant,  the  haws  of  all  French  candy,  is  made  of  sugar  and  wa- 
ter boiled  together  with  a  small  quantity  of  cream  of  tartar  to  prevent 
sugar  from  granulating,  to  soft  ball,  238  degrees  F.  If  the  temper- 
ature rises  above  238  degrees,  add  cold  water  at  once  to  reduce  the 
temperature.  Use  coarse  granulated  sugar.  Confectioners  use  a 
candy  sugar.  The  cream  of  tartar  if  dry  must  be  added  before  the 
sugar  begins  to  boil;  if  put  in  afterwards  the  cream  of  tartar  must 
be  made  thin  with  water.  If  acid  is  used  in  making  fondant,  there 
will  be  no  glaze.  Always  have  plenty  of  water  in  making  fondant. 
The  smaller  the  quantity  made  the  more  water  is  needed  and  the  more 
acid.  If  a  cover  is  used  on  the  kettle,  no  granulation  will  form 
around  the  edge;  the  cover  need  only  be  kept  on  at  first,  until  the 
thermometer  is  used.  Fondant  may  be  made  without  acid.  The 
best  bonbon  creams  are  made  without  acid,  but  no  other  candy  should 
be  tried  without  it.  Fondant  should  be  stirred  until  hard,  as  it  will 
soften  by  standing.  If  the  cream  is  too  hard,  soften  by  adding  a  lit- 
tle at  a  time  a  syrup  of  34  degrees. 

WHITE  FONDANT. 

2%  lbs.  sugar,  iy2  cups  hot  water,  y±  tsp.  cream  of  tartar. 

Put  ingredients  into  a  smooth  granite  stewpan.  Stir  until  dis- 
solved, and  heat  gradually  to  boiling  point.  Boil  without  stirring 
until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  that  will 
keep  its  shape,  which  is  238  degrees.  If  the  sugar  adheres  to  the  sides 
of  the  kettle,  remove  with  a  piece  of  wet  cheese-cloth  or  a  fine  pastry 
brush  dipped  in  cold  water. 

Pour  slowly  on  a  slightly  oiled  marble  slab,  or  a  large  platter 
oiled.  Let  is  stand  for  a  few  minutes  to  cool,  or  until  pressing  it 
with  the  finger,  it  leaves  a  dent  on  the  surface  and  yet  has  formed  no 
crust.       If  stirred  while  too  warm,  it  will  grain.       If  a  crust  forms, 


198  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIEXCE  SCHOOL. 

every  particle  must  be  taken  off,  or  else  the  boiling  must  be  done 
again,  as  it  shows  it  has  cooked  a  little  too  long. 

When  it  will  dent,  scrape  fondant  together,  and  work  with  a 
wooden  spatula  until  white  and  creamy.  It  will  quickly  change  from 
this  consistency,  so  begin  kneading  while  it  is  still  creamy,  otherwise 
it  will  lump,  and  will  be  difficult  to  work  smooth.  Scrape  the  slab, 
and  knead  the  scrapings  separately.  Do  not  mix  the  fondant  unless 
it  is  perfectly  free  from  lumps. 

Put  the  fondant  into  a  bowl,  cover  with  oiled  paper,  and  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  or  until  needed,  or  keep  in  an  air-tight  preserve- 
jar. 

BONBONS. 

The  centers  of  bonbons  are  made  of  fondant  shaped  in  balls. 
Flavor  only  a  small  portion  of  the  fondant  at  a  time,  and  use  colorings 
sparingly. 

For  cocoanut  centres  work  as  much  shredded  cocoanut  as  pos- 
sible into  a  small  quantity  of  fondant. 

For  nut  centres  surround  a  nut-meat  with  just  enough  fondant 
to  cover. 

TO  DIP  BONBONS. 

Shape  the  centres  as  desired,  and  allow  them  to  dry.  Put  some 
fondant  in  a  saucepan,  and  melt  over  hot  water;  color  and  flavor  as 
desired.  In  coloring  fondant  dip  a  small  wooden  skewer  in  coloring 
paste,  taking  up  only  a  very  small  quantity,  and  dip  skewer  in  fondant. 
If  care  is  not  taken  the  color  is  apt  to  be  too  intense.  During  the 
dipping  keep  the  fondant  over  hot  water.  In  clipping  use  a  two-tined 
fork  or  a  confectioner's  bonbon  dipper.  Drop  centres  in  fondant  one 
at  a  time,  put  on  oiled  paper,  and  bring  end  of  dipper  over  top  of  bon- 
bon— which  shows  they  are  hand-made.  Stir  the  fondant  between 
the  clippings  to  prevent  a  crust  from  forming. 

DIPPED  WALNUTS. 

Melt  fondant  and  flavor.  Dip  half  a  walnut  as  bonbon  centres 
are  clipped.  Halves  of  pecans  or  whole  blanched  almonds  may  be  sim- 
ilarly dipped. 

CHOCOLATE  CEEAMS. 
Boll  fondant  flavored  with  vanilla  into  small  balls ;  let  them  stand 
for  a  few  hours  to  harden.  Melt  an  ounce  of  unsweetened  chocolate, 
add  to  it  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one-half 
teaspoon  butter.  Stir  till  smooth ;  drop  the  balls  into  it,  and  remove 
with  a  fork  or  candy-wire.  If  the  chocolate  becomes  too  stiff,  add  a 
few  drops  of  syrup  and  heat  again. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  199 

CHOCOLATE  PEPPERMINTS. 

Dip  peppermint  creams  into  liquid  chocolate,  as  directed  for 
chocolate  creams. 

MAPLE  FONDANT. 

1%  lbs.  maple  sugar  1  c.  hot  water 

114  lbs.  sugar  1/4  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Break  maple  sugar  in  pieces  and  add  to  remaining  ingredients. 
Boil  and  work  same  as  white  fondant. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI. 

Fill  an  oiled  border-mould  with  three  layers  of  melted  fondant. 
Have  bottom  layer  maple,  well  mixed  with  English  walnut  meats; 
the  second  layer  colored  pink,  flavored  with  rose,  and  mixed  with 
candied  cherries  cut  in  quarters  and  figs  finely  chopped;  the  third 
layer  white,  flavored  with  vanilla,  candied  cherries  cut  in  quarters, 
and  candied  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cover  mould  with  oiled 
paper,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Remove  from  mould,  place  on  a 
plate  covered  with  a  lace  paper-napkin.  Fill  center  with  bonbons 
and  glace  nuts. 

CREAM  MINTS. 
Melt  fondant  over  hot  water  and  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of  oil  of 
peppermint,  wintergreen,  cloves,  cinnamon  or  orange,  and  color  if  de- 
sired. Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  waxed  paper,  or  drop  through 
funnel,  placing  round  stick  in  funnel  to  cut  off  each  portion.  Allow 
to  cool  and  loosen  by  running  a  knife  under  each  one.  Dilute  pepper- 
mint oil  with  spirits  of  cologne,  as  it  improves  the  flavor.  Alcohol 
is  too  rank  for  reducing  flavoring  materials. 

GLACE  NUTS. 

2  c.  sugar 

1  c.  boiling  water 

1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar. 
Put  ingredients  in  a  smooth  saucepan,  stir  and  heat  to  boiling 
point.  Boil  without  stirring  until  the  syrup  reaches  the  crack,  310 
degrees  F.  Remove  any  granulation  of  sugar  from  sides  of  sauce- 
pan, as  in  malting  fondant.  Remove  saucepan  from  fire  and  place 
instantly  in  a  large  pan  of  cold  water  to  stop  the  boiling.  Remove 
from  the  cold  water  and  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  during  dipping. 
Take  nuts  separately  on  a  long  pin,  dip  in  syrup  to  cover,  remove  from 
syrup  and  place  on  oiled  paper.  If  the  syrup  begins  to  crystalize,  set 
back  on  stove  until  it  just  comes  to  a  boil. 


200  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

GLACE  FRUITS. 

Grapes,  strawberries,  sections  of  seedless  oranges  and  candied 
cherries  are  most  used.  The  syrup  is  the  same  as  that  used  for  glace 
nuts. 

Take  grapes  separately  from  clusters,  leaving  a  short  stem  on 
each  grape.  With  a  pair  of  pincers  take  each  grape  by  the  stem 
and  dip  it  into  the  syrup,  being  sure  it  is  perfectly  coated. 

Divide  oranges  into  sections;  do  not  break  the  inside  skin,  for  if 
the  juice  escapes  in  ever  so  small  a  quantity,  the  section  must  be  dis- 
carded. Let  them  stand  several  hours  until  the  surface  has  become 
very  dry.  Then  drop  them  in  the  syrup  one  at  a  time,  remove  with 
candy  wire,  or  two  forks,  and  place  them  on  an  oiled  slab  or  plate 
to  dry.      Glace  fruits  keep  only  one  day. 

ALMOND  HARDBAKE. 
Blanch  some  almonds  and  split  them  in  two.  Dry  them  in  a 
moderate  heat  without  discoloring  them.  Lay  them  with  the  flat 
sides  down  on  an  oiled  layer-cake  pan,  entirely  covering  it;  or  arrange 
in  regular  order — like  wreaths,  rosettes,  etc.  Pour  over  the  nuts 
enough  sugar  boiled  to  the  crack  to  cover  them.  Mark  off  squares  or 
circles  on  the  candy  while  it  is  warm,  and  then  it  can  be  broken  in 
regular  pieces  when  cold.  Walnuts,  pecans  and  other  nuts  may  be 
used. 

TURKISH  PASTE. 
1  oz.  sheet  gelatine  %  C.  cold  water 

1  lb.  granulated  sugar  y2  C.  water 

Rind  1  orange  (no  white)  1-3  C.  orange  juice 

:;  T.  lemon  juice  M?  C.  confectioner's  sugar 

Break  gelatine  in  pieces.  Soak  2  hours  in  y2.  0.  cold  water,  add 
y2  C.  water  to  sugar  and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Add  gelatine.  Soak 
20  min.,  remove  from  stove,  add  grated  rind  and  juice.  Rinse  pan  in 
cold  water.  Pan  5  inches  by  6  inches.  Pour  in  paste  1  inch  thick. 
When  cold  cut  in  cubes,  roll  in  confectioner's  sugar. 

STUFFED  DATES. 
Wash   dates.       Remove  stones,  fill   centre  with  fondant,   peanut 
butter  or  cheese.      Roll  in  sugar  if  fondant  is  used. 

PEPPERMINTS. 

Melt  fondant  over  hot  water,  flavor  with  2  drops  peppermint. 
Drop  from  tip  of  teaspoon  onto  oiled  paper. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL. 
Remove  peel  from  4  oranges  in  quarters.       Cover  with  cold  water, 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  201 

bring  to  boiling  point  and  cook  until  soft.  Drain,  remove  white  por- 
tion, cut  yellow  into  thin  strips,  using  scissors.  Boil  y2  C.  water  and 
1  C.  sugar  until  it  threads.  Cook  strips  in  syrup  5  niin.,  or  until 
translucent.       Drain,  coat  with  sugar.       Dry  off  sugar  in  oven. 

SALTED  NUTS. 
Kemove  shell  and  red  skin  of  peanuts.      Put  1  T.  olive  oil  in  fry- 
ing pan  and  when  hot  put  in  nuts  and  let  them  brown  slightly.    Drain 
on  brown  paper,  sprinkle  with  salt. 

MAKSHMALLOW  FUDGE. 
2  C.  light  brown  sugar  1  C.  marshm  allow 

i/2  C.  milk  1  t.  butter 

i/o  t.  vanilla 
Cook  sugar  and  milk  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.       Beat  in  marshmallow  until  dissolved.       Add  butter 
and  vanilla.      Cool,  cut  in  squares. 

CHOCOLATE  NUTS. 
Melt  y2  lb.  sweetened  chocolate  in  double  boiler,  keeping  .vater 
below  boiling  point.  Take  from  stove  and  heat  until  slightly  cool. 
Drop  one  quart  of  nuts,  a  few  at  a  time,  into  chocolate,  and  remove 
one  by  one  with  a  fork.  Place  on  paper.  Fondant  may  be  dipped  in 
the  same  way. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 

2  C.  sugar  1  T.  butter 

V2  C.  milk  2  sqs.  chocolate 

1  t.  vanilla  1  C.  chopped  nut  meats 

Cook  until  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water.      Remove  from  fire, 

let  cool,  add  nut  meats,  vanilla  and  beat  until  it  thickens.      Pour  on 

to  buttered  pan.      Cut  in  squares. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE. 

1  C.  Karo  syrup  2  T.  melted  butter 

1  T.  vinegar  Peanuts 

1  C.  brown  sugar 

Mix  ingredients,  boil  without  stirring  until  brittle  in  cold  water. 
Put  peanuts  in  oiled  pan.       Pour  over  mixture. 

FONDANT. 

2  C.  sugar  y2  C.  water 
V8  t.  cream  of  tartar 

Mix  in  saucepan,  then  wash  off  sides  in  saucepan  with  hands  wet 
in  cold  water  to  remove  all  grains  of  sugar.      Stir  until  dissolved,  let 


202  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

boil  without  stirring  until  syrup  will  form  a  "soft  ball"  in  cold  wa- 
ter. Pour  on  to  un buttered  platter  and  when  cool  work  with  wooden 
spoon  until  creamy.      Make  into  ball  and  knead  till  smooth. 

MOCHA  FONDANT. 
3  C.  sugar  3  T.  coffee 

IV2  C.  water  14  t.  cream  of  tartar 

Put  water  and  coffee  in  saucepan,  heat  to  boiling  point,  strain 
through  bag,  add  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar  and  proceed  as  for  fon- 
dant. 

TO  PREPAEK  FONDANT  FOP  DIPPING. 
Place  fondant  in  saucepan  and  the  saucepan  in  a  pan  of  hot  wa- 
ter,  stir   constantly;   add   coloring   and   flavoring.   When   melted   dip 
fondant. 

TO  DIP  FONDANT. 

Use  a  two-tined  fork  or  candy  dipper.  Stir  fondant  often  so 
there  will  be  no  crust  on  top.  Flavor  fondant  and  make  small  balls 
or  cones.  Cool.  Drop  the  balls  quickly  into  melted  fondant.  Place 
on  paper. 


Cake 


STEPS  IN  BAKING  A  CAKE. 

1.  Bising  3.     Cooking  throughout 

2.  Setting  4.     Browning 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

Eggs,  yolks,  6  Eggs,  whites,  6 

Sugar,  1  cup  Flour,  1  cup 

Lemon  juice,  1  tbl.  Salt,  y±  tsp. 

Lemon  rind,  grated,  y2  tbl. 
Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored;  add  sugar  gradually 
and  continue  beating,  using  Dover  egg  beater.  Add  lemon  juice,  rind 
and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  When  eggs  are  partially 
mixed  with  yolks,  remove  beater  and  carefully  cut  and  fold  in  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  salt.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven  in  an  angel 
cake  pan  or  a  deep  narrow  pan. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

Whites  8  eggs  %  cups  flour 

1  tsp.  cream  tartar  14  tsp.  sa^ 

]   cup  sugar  %  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  frothy,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  con- 
tinue beating  till  eggs  are  stiff;  then  add  sugar  gradually.  Fold  in 
flour  mixed  with  salt  and  sifted  four  times,  and  add  vanilla.  Bake 
40-50  min.  in  an  unbuffered  angel  cake  pan.  After  cake  has  risen  and 
begins  to  brown  cover  with  a  paper.  When  done  place  the  corners 
of  the  pan  on  four  muffin  rings  or  cups  to  cool.    Ice  with  royal  icing. 


APPLE-SAUCE  CAKE. 
1  C.  sugar  y2  C.  chopped  raisins 

Y2  C.  butter  1  t.  soda  dissolved  in  hot 

y4  t.  salt  water 

1  t.  lemon  extract  y2  t.  clove 

1  C.  apple-sauce  1  t.- cinnamon 

13/4  C.  flour  1-16  t.  nutmeg 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  lemon,  apple,  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 
Add  seasoning  to  half  of  flour,  sift,  roll  raisins  in  flour,  add  flour  slow- 
ly.     Beat,  add  raisins.      Bake  in  two  layers. 


204  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

FILLING. 

2  beaten  egg  whites  14  C.  sugar 

1  C.  sifted  apple-sauce 

POUND  CAKE. 

Butter,  1  lb.  Flour,  1  lb. 

Sugar,  1  lb.  Mace,  y2  tsp. 

Eggs,  yolks,  10  Brandy,  2  tbl. 

Eggs,  whites,  10 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue  beating;  then 
add  the  yolks  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon  colored ;  add  the  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry;  flour,  mace  and  brandy.  Beat  vigor- 
ously 5  min.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan  1*4  hours  in  a  slow  oven;  or  if  to  be 
used  for  fancy  ornamented  cakes  bake  30-35  min.  in  a  dripping  pan. 
When  cold  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  glaze  and  dip  in  fondant  icing. 

MAPLE  CARAMEL  CAKE. 

14  C.  butter  1V2  C.  flour 

1  C.  sugar  iv  I  o  t.  baking  powder 

2  small  eggs  V2  t.  vanilla 
i/2  C.  milk 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten,  then  the  whites  beaten  until  stiff.  Add  milk,  flour  sifted 
with  baking  powder,  and  beat  thoroughly;  then  add  vanilla,  and  bake 
in  layers  or  loaf. 

FROSTING. 
1  lb.  soft  maple  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

y2.  C.  boiling  water 
Break  sugar  in  small  pieces,  put  in  the  saucepan  with  the  boiling 
water  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  without  stirring  until 
syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  gradually 
on  the  beaten  whites,  and  beat  constantly  until  mixture  is  the  right 
consistency  to  spread. 

RICH  FRUIT  CAKE. 

1  pt.  sugar  1V-2  lbs-  currants 

y2  pt.  butter  %  l°s.  citron 

1  pt.  flour  3-8  lbs.  blanched  and 
1)  eggs  pounded  almonds 

2  lbs.  stoned  raisins  2  oz.  cinnamon 
y2  oz.  mace  1  nutmeg 

V2  oz.  clove  14  pt.  brandy 

Dredge  currants  and  raisins  with  y2  C.  of  the  flour.  Mix  the 
spice  with  the  remainder  of  the  flour.       Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream, 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  205 

gradually  beat  in  the  sugar.  Add  the  brandy  a  little  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing until  the  mass  is  smooth  and  creamy.  Add  the  almonds  and  beat 
well.  Now  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  whites. 
Stir  the  flour  in  lightly,  then  the  raisins  and  currants,  spread  the  cake 
mixture  in  layers  in  the  pans  and  spread  thin  slices  of  citron  on  each 
layer.      Bake  for  four  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD. 

2  eggs  2  tsp.  soda 

y2  cup  butter  1  tsp.  ginger 

]/2  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  cup  molasses  y2  tsp.  cloves 

2%  cups  flour  1/9  tsp.  allspice 

1  cup  boiling  water 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  add  the  molasses,  then  the 

soda  dissolved  in  the  cup  of  boiling  water.      Add  the  flour  and  spice 

sifted  together,  and  lastly  the  two  well-beaten  eggs  just  before  baking. 

Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

Citron,   raisins  and   currants   may  be  added,  with   y2  cup   more 

flour,  making  a  nice  fruit  cake. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

Y2  C.  sugar  y2  C.  molasses 

1  T.  butter  1  t.  soda 

1  egg  IV2  C.  flour 

1 1.  ginger  1  t.  cinnamon 

i/8  t.  clove  1/2  t.  salt 

y2  C  sour  milk 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  spices,  egg  well  beaten.       Sift  soda 
and  salt  with  flour  and  add  alternately  with  milk  and  molasses.    Bake 
in  pan  or  gem  tins. 

FRUIT  PORK  CAKE. 

1  lb.  fat  pork  minced  fine  and  1  C.  boiling  water  poured  over  it. 

2  C.  brown  sugar  1  C.  molasses 

6  C.  flour  2  t.  soda  dissolved  in  hot 

1  lb.  currants  H20 

1  lb.  dates  2  lbs.  raisins 

2  t.  cloves  %  lb.  citron 

2  t.  allspice  2  t.  cinnamon 

y2  C.  cherry  wine  2  t.  nutmeg 
Bake  4  hours 

MARGUERITES. 
Boil  1  c.  sugar,  y2  C.  water  until  it  threads.      Remove  to  back  of 


206  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

stove  and  drop  in  5  niarshmallows  cut  in  small  pieces.  Let  dissolve, 
ponr  gradually  over  2  egg  whites  beaten  stiff,  add  2  T.  cocoanut,  14  t. 
vanilla,  1  C.  nuts.  Drop  from  spoon  onto  buttered  tins,  brown  in 
moderate  oven. 

MARGUERITES. 

2  eggs  7  T.  pastry  flour 

1  C.  brown  sugar  14  t.  baking  powder 

1-3  t.  salt  %  C.  pecan  or  any  nut  meats 

y2  t.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  light,  add  sugar  and  salt  and  beat  until  creamy.  Add 
vanilla  and  flour,  lastly  fold  in  nut  meats,  reserving  a  few  of  them 
to  put  on  top.  Bake  in  a  large  shallow  tin,  or  small  fluted  tins,  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

1  EGG  CAKE. 
14  C.  butter  1/2  C.  milk 

y2  C.  sugar  iy2  C.  pastry  flour 

1  egg  2%  t.  baking  powder 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  baking  powder  with 
flour,  add  alternately  with  milk.       Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

%  C.  powdered  sugar  Milk  to  make  a  thick  paste 

1  sq.  chocolate  y±  t.  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate,  add  enough  milk  to  sugar  to  make  of  consistency 
to  spread,  add  chocolate  and  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

1/2  C.  butter  iy2  C.  flour  (pastry) 

1  C.  sugar  2y2  t.  baking  powder 

2  eggs  2  sqs.  chocolate 
y2  C.  milk  y2  t.  vanilla 

Directions:  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  and  the  egg 
yolks  beaten  light.  Add  milk,  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder,  and 
beat  well.  Add  melted  chocolate  and  vanilla.  Fold  in  egg  whites 
beaten  stiff.  Bake  40  to  GO  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Melt  chocolate 
over  hot  water. 


Fancy  Cakes 


VENETIAN  CAKES. 

]/2  cup  of  butter  1  cup  almonds 

Y2  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

iy2.  cups  pastry  flour  Yolks,  3  eggs 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  very  light;  add  the 
yolks  well  beaten,  then  the  almonds  blanched  and  cut  in  strips;  mix, 
add  the  vanilla  and  stir  in  lightly  the  flour;  the  dough  should  be 
rather  soft.  Take  a  small  piece  at  a  time,  drop  it  in  powdered  sugar, 
and  roll  it  between  the  hands  into  a  ball  one  inch  in  diameter.  Put 
a  piece  of  pistachio  on  the  top.  Place  the  balls  a  little  distance 
apart  on  floured  pans,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ten  to  fifteen  min- 
utes, or  to  a  pale  color.  They  will  flatten  in  baking  and  have  the 
shape  of  macaroons. 

CKEAM  CAKES. 

1  cup  water  IV2  cups  pastry  flour 

2  tbl.  sugar  3  to  4  eggs 
4  tbl.  butter  y2  ssp.  salt 

Put  the  water,  sugar,  salt  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire. 
When  butter  is  melted  remove,  add  to  it  the  flour  and  beat  until  it  is 
a  smooth  paste;  return  it  to  the  fire  and  stir  vigorously  unil  the  paste 
leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan,  then  remove;  let  it  partly  cool,  then  add 
the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  each  one  for  some  time  before  adding 
the  next.  When  all  are  in  beat  until  the  batter  is  no  longer  stringy. 
It  should  be  consistent  enough  to  hold  its  shape  without  spreading 
when  dropped  from  a  spoon  on  a  tin.  Three  eggs  make  it  about  right 
unless  they  are  very  small  or  the  flour  very  dry.  Put  the  mixture  into 
a  pastry  bag  with  a  tube  of  %  inch  opening;  press  the  batter  through 
into  balls  one  and  one-half  to  two  inches  in  diameter.  A  spoon  can 
be  used,  but  does  not  give  the  cakes  as  good  shape.  Brush  the  top 
with  egg.  Put  them  in  a  slack  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  about  forty 
minutes.  They  will  feel  light  when  done,  and  be  puffed  very  high. 
When  cool  make  an  incision  in  the  side  and  fill  with  cream  filling. 
These  cakes  are  good  made  very  small,  filled  with  jam  and  a  little 
whipped  cream,  and  the  tops  dipped  in  sugar  boiled  to  the  crack,  then 
sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds  browned. 

CKEAM  FILLING. 

Beat  well  together  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  3 
tablespoons  cornstarch;  dilute  it  with  two  cups  boiling  milk;  cook 


208  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

over  boiling  water  until  thickened;  remove,  cool  and  add  flavoring.  If 
coffee  flavoring  is  wanted  use  one-half  black  coffee  and  one-half  milk. 
If  chocolate  melt  three  or  four  ounces  and  add  it  to  the  custard. 

ALMOND  WAFERS. 

2  T.  flour  1-6  tsp.  salt 

2  T.  powdered  sugar  White  1  egg 

Sift  flour,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg 
just  enough  to  break  it,  and  add  as  much  of  it  to  the  flour  and  sugar 
as  it  will  take  to  make  a  creamy  batter;  flavor  with  a  few  drops  al- 
mond essence.  Grease  and  flour  the  pan.  Drop  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  the  paste  on  the  pan,  and  with  a  wet  knife  spread  it  into  a  thin, 
round  wafer.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  edges  are  slightly 
browned,  then,  before  removing  from  the  oven  door,  lift  each  wafer 
and  turn  it  around  a  stick.  They  stiffen  very  quickly,  and  the  rolling 
must  be  done  while  they  are  hot. 

ROYAL  ICING. 

White  1  egg  Lemon  juice 

Powdered  sugar,  1  cup  W^ater 

Place  egg  in  bowl,  add  a  little  lemon  juice  or  other  flavoring  and 
a  few  drops  of  water.  Stir  in  powdered  sugar  until  right  consist- 
ency to  spread.  While  cake  is  still  warm  pile  icing  on  centre  of 
cake,  and  with  a  wet  knife  smooth  it  over  top  and  sides  of  cake.  If 
icing  is  prepared  before  cake  is  ready,  cover  it  with  a  wet  cloth.  If 
it  becomes  too  stiff  add  a  few  drops  of  water  and  stir  again.  Color 
and  flavor  as  desired.  One  egg  will  take  about  1  cup  of  sugar,  and 
will  make  enough  icing  for  one  cake. 

FONDANT  ICING. 

2  cups  sugar  Vs  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  water 
Put  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  in  a  graniteware  vessel 
and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  but  not  a  minute  longer.  As  it 
boils  crystals  will  form  on  the  edge  of  the  pan.  These  must  be  wiped 
away  by  wetting  a  cloth  or  brush  in  water  and  passing  it  around  the 
dish  without  touching  the  boiling  sugar.  This  must  be  done  frequent- 
ly, or  as  often  as  the  crystals  form,  or  the  whole  mass  will  become 
granular.  When  large  bubbles  rise  it  must  be  carefully  watched 
and  tested,  as  from  this  time  it  quickly  passes  from  one  stage  to  an- 
other. Have  a  cup  of  ice-water  and  a  skewer  or  small  stick;  dip  it 
into  the  ice-water,  then  into  the  sugar  and  again  into  the  water.  If 
the  sugar  which  adheres  to  it  can  be  rolled  into  a  soft  ball  it  is  done. 
Have  ready  a  marble  slab  oiled  or  an  oiled  platter;  pour  the  syrup 
over  it  and  let  it  cool  a  few  minutes,  or  until  pressing  it  with  the  finger 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  209 

it  leaves  a  dent  on  the  surface.  Then  work  it  with  a  wooden  spatnla 
until  it  becomes  white,  smooth  and  creamy,  then  work  it  with  the 
hands  until  it  is  smooth,  or  fine,  even  texture  throughout.  If  it  is 
stirred  while  too  warm  it  will  grain.  If  it  forms  a  crust,  every  par- 
ticle must  be  removed  or  else  the  boiling  must  be  done  again,  as  it 
shows  it  has  cooked  a  little  too  long.  Do  not  mix  the  scrapings  with 
the  fondant. 

The  mixture  in  which  small  cakes  are  dipped  for  icing  is  fondant. 
(See  recipe.)       Cakes  for  dipping  must  first  be  glazed. 

TO  GLAZE  CAKES. 

Beat  white  of  one  egg  slightly  and  add  one  tablespoonful  pow- 
dered sugar.  Apply  with  a  brush  to  top  and  sides  of  cakes.  After 
glazing  cakes  should  stand  over  night  before  dipping. 

TO  DIP  CAKES. 

Melt  fondant  over  hot  water  and  color  and  flavor  as  desired.  Stir 
to  prevent  crust  from  foaming  on  top.  Take  cake  to  be  dipped  on  a 
three-tined  fork  and  lower  in  fondant  three-fourths  the  depth  of  cake. 
Remove  from  fondant,  invert  and  slip  from  fork  to  a  board.  Decor- 
ate with  ornamental  frosting  and  nut  meat,  candied  cherries,  angelic 
or  candied  violets.  Pound  cake  is  generally  used,  baked  1  inch  thick 
and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

1  C.  sugar  !/2.  C.  milk 

y2  C.  butter  2  sqs.  chocolate 

2  eggs  2y2  t.  baking  powder 
1%  C.  flour 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually.  Separate  yolks  and  whites 
of  eggs.  Beat  yolks  till  light,  add  to  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  baking 
powder  and  flour  and  add  alternately  with  milk.  Add  melted  choco- 
late, fold  in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  25  to  40  min.  in  moderate 
oven. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

i/4  C.  butter  i/2  C.  milk 

1  C.  sugar  1%  C.  flour 

2  eggs  2y2  t.  baking  powder 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  eggs  well  beaten  and  milk. 

Add  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layer-cake 
tins.      Fill  with  orange  filling  and  frost  with  orange  frosting. 


210  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

CHKISTMAS  CAKE. 

6  eggs  1  lb.  currants 

3-8  lb.  butter  .     14  lb.  mixed  peel 

i/2  lb.  brown  sugar  14  C.  boiled  or  sweet  cider 

1/2  lb.  flour  1/2  lb.  dates 

1  lb.  raisins  y2  t.  cloves 
14  lb.  almonds                                      y2  t.  allspice 

2  t.  cinnamon  y2  t.  soda 
1  t.  cream  tartar 

Wash  fruit,  seed  raisins,  stone  dates,  chop  all  fruits  (except  rais- 
ins) and  nuts.  Sift  flour,  soda  and  cream  tartar  together.  Sift  a 
little  flour  over  fruits  to  prevent  them  from  adhering.  Add  fruit 
last.  Bake  1  hour.  Ice  when  cold.  Garnish  with  angelica,  candy 
pearls,  candied  cherries  and  holly. 

BOILED  FKOSTING. 

1  C.  sugar  1  t.  vanilla 

1-3  C.  boiling  water  1  egg  white 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
boil  without  stirring  until  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  from 
spoon.  Pour  syrup  slowly  on  beaten  white  of  egg,  beat  until  of  right 
consistency  to  spread. 

BANBUKY  MIXTUKE. 

1  C.  raisins  Grated  rind  and  juice 

y±  C.  citron  of  1  lemon 

1  egg  slightly  beaten  1  C.  sugar 

2  T.  cornstarch 

Chop  raisins  fine,  add  citron,  lemon  and  sugar  mixed  with  corn- 
starch, and  add  egg.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick.  Fill  lined 
pastry  plate  or  make  into  turnovers. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

1  C.  sugar  1  C.  flour 

2  egg  yolks  1%  t.  baking  powder 
%  C.  milk                                            2  egg  whites 

y4  t.  salt  V2  t.  lemon  juice 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick,  add  %  C.  sugar  slowly,  then 
milk,  remainder  of  sugar,  beat  well.  Sift  baking  powder  with  flour. 
Add  flour,  salt  and  flavoring.  Lastly,  fold  in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  45  to  60  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

BOILED  CUSTAKD. 

2  C.  scalded  milk  %  C.  sugar 

3  egg  yolks  y$  t.  salt 
y2  t.  vanilla 


\ 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  211 

Beat  yolks  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  scalded  milk  on 
to  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  a  coating  is  formed  on  spoon. 
If  custard  curdles,  beat  with  Dover  egg  beater.       Flavor  when  cold. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

y2  C.  butter  1  t.  baking  powder 

y2  lb.  almonds  blanched  and  1  C.  sugar 

chopped  %  lb.  citron  cut  fine 

%  lb.  cocoanut  5  egg  whites 

y2  t.  almond  extract  1%  C.  pastry  flour 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  almonds,  citron  and  cocoanut, 
rolled  flour.  Beat  eggs  until  stiff,  add  one-half  of  the  whites  and  ex- 
tract. Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add.  Fold  in  remaining 
egg  whites.      Ice  with  boiled  frosting,  sprinkle  with  cocoanut. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 
Make  same  as  maple  caramel  cake,  except  add  1  t.  of  grated  or- 
ange rind.       (Do  not  grate  in  any  of  the  white  of  the  orange  rind.) 

FROSTING. 
Beat  white  till  stiff,  add  boiled  sugar,  drop  by  drop,  stir,  add  yolk 
well  beaten  and,  lastly,  add  the  juice  of  one  orange. 

Do  not  prepare  frosting  till  cake  is  baked.  Add  frosting  to  cake 
after  cake  is  cooled. 

ORANGE  FILLING. 

1/2  C.  sugar  1  egg  slightly  beaten 

3  T.  flour  1  T.  butter 

Grated  rind  1  orange  *4  C.  orange  juice 
y2  T.  lemon  juice 
Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.      Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Cool  before  spreading. 

ORANGE  FROSTING. 

Grated  rind  1  orange  1  t.  brandy 

i/2  t.  lemon  juice  1  T.  orange  juice 

1  egg  yolk  Confectioner's  sugar 

Mix  fruit  juices,  let  stand  15  min.  Stir  in  sugar  until  right  con- 
sistency to  spread. 

DEVILS'  FOOD. 
Part  1. 

1  C.  grated  chocolate  y2  C.  brown  sugar 

%  C.  sweet  milk 
Dissolve  sugar  and  chocolate  in  double  boiler,  add  milk  slowly, 
blend. 


212  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Part  2. 

2  eggs  1  C.  brown  sugar 

%  C.  butter  1%  C.  flour 

1  t.  soda 
Beat  eggs  separately.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks,  well 
beaten.  Mix  soda  and  flour,  add  slowly  to  above  mixture.  Let  part 
1  cool  and  then  mix  all  together.  Add  whites  last,  beaten  stiff.  Make 
two  layers.  Bake  25  min.  Put  together  with  boiled  frosting  and  then 
cover  top. 

FKOSTING. 

1  C.  sugar  granulated  4  C.  H20 

Boil  till  it  threads.      Pour  slowly  over  1  white  beaten  stiff.  Beat 
till  cold.      Spread  with  silver  knife  dipped  in  hot  water. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

1/2  C.  butter  %  C.  sour  milk 

1  C.  sugar  14  C.  molasses 

2  eggs  V2  t.  soda 

y2  C.  currants  2  C.  pastry  flour 

i2  C.  raisins  %  t.  cloves 

1  t.  cinnamon  %  t.  allspice 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  egg  well  beaten,  molasses  and  sour  milk. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,   add  to  mixture.       Bake  in  moderate 

oven. 


Cakes  and  Other  Pastry 

BANANA  SHORTCAKE. 
1-3  cup  butter  4  bananas 

1  cup  sugar  Meringue 

y2  cup  milk  Cream  filling 

1%  cups  flour  2  eggs 

2!/2  t.  baking  powder 
Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  then  egg  yolks,  flour  and  baking-powder 
sifted,  and  milk.  Alternate  flour  and  milk.  Bake  in  square  cake-pan. 
Place  bananas,  when  done,  on  tops,  cut  in  halves  lengthening,  then 
quarters.  Cover  with  thick  custard  filling  and  meringue.  Use  two  egg 
whites,  14  cup  sugar.  Place  meringue  on  top  with  pastry-bag. 
Brown  in  oven. 

LEMON  SNAPS. 
y2.  cup  butter  %  t.  soda 

1  cup  sugar  Flour  to  roll 

2  eggs  Juice  y2  lemon 

Cream  butter;  add  sugar,  eggs  well  beaten,  lemon  juice,  soda 
mixed  with  flour.      Boll  thin  and  shape.      Bake. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

%  cup  butter  2  t.  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  y2  cup  milk 

4  yolks  I/2  t.  orange  or  lemon 

1%  cups  flour  extract 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually;  egg  yolks  well  beaten,  flavor- 
ing.      Sift  baking-powder  with  flour;  add  alternately  with  milk. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cup  flour 

3  egg  whites  y2  cup  milk 
IV2  t.  baking  powder  1  t.  vanilla 
1-3  cup  butter 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  beat  till  light,  add  flour  sifted  with  bak- 
ing-powder; alternate  with  milk,  add  vanilla;  beat,  fold  in  egg  whites 
beaten. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES. 

2  eggs  1  cup  sour  milk  or  cream 
1  cup  sugar  y2  t.  soda 

Flour  to  make  soft  Dough  to  be  rolled 


214  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Beat  eggs  till  light,  add  sugar,  a  little  flour  mixed  with  soda. 
Milk.  Alternate  milk  and  Hour.  Roll  y8  inch  thick.  Bake  till 
brown. 

PORK  CAKE. 

2  cups  salt  pork,  chopped  1  T.  cloves 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  y2  cup  boiling  water 

1  cup  currants  poured  over  pork,  or 

y2  lb.  citron  i/>  cup  coffee 

6  cups  Horn-  1  T.  soda 

12  cups  sugar  1   enp  molasses 

1  T.  cinnamon  Hake  in  slow  oven 

JELLY  KOLL. 

3  eggs  1  cup  Hour 

1    enp  sugar  1  t.  cream  of  tartar 

L-3  enp  milk  y2  t.  soda 

1-16  1.  salt 
Beat  eggs  till  light,  add  sugar,  sift  Hour  and  cream  of  tartar  and 
soda,  add  alternately  with  milk.       Bake  in  large  pan.       While  warm 
spread  with  jelly  and  roll  light.       Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Cut 
edges  oil'  with  sharp  kuife  if  hard. 

CURRANT  CAKE. 
1  g  cup  butter  2  cups  Hour 

1  cup  sugar  :»  t.  baking  powder 

L*  eggs  1  cup  currants 

1  e*^  yolk  mixed  with  1  T.  Hour 

1  2  cup  milk 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  eggs  well  beaten,  sift  Hour  and  baking- 
powder,  add  alternately  with  milk.  Add  currants  last.  Bake  in 
individual  tins  or  loaf. 

PEANUT  COOKIES. 

4  T.  butter  4  T.  milk 
y2  cup  sugar  y2  t.  salt 

2  egg  yolks  1  t.  lemon  juice 

1  cup  flour  1%  t.  baking  powder 

12  cups  chopped  peanuts 
Cream  butter,   add   sugar  gradually,   add   egg  yolks  well   beaten, 
milk  and  salt.       Sift  baking  powder  with  Hour  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  lemon  juice.      Roll  ys  inch  thick.      Cover  with  chopped  peanuts. 
Hake  in  slow  oven  12  min. 

ORNAMENTAL  FROSTING. 
Whites  3  eggs  1  T.  lemon  juice 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  215 

Confectioner's  sugar  sifted.  Put  eggs  in  bowl,  add  2  T.  sugar, 
beat  until  thick,  add  more  sugar  and  lemon  juice  very  slowly,  con- 
tinue beating,  add  sugar  by  spoonfuls  until  stiff  enough  to  spread. 
Insert  knife  in  mixture;  if  knife  makes  a  clean  cut  it  is  of  right 
consistency  to  hold  its  shape.      Use  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

Y2  cup  butter  l1/^  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2y2  t.  baking  powder 
y2  cup  milk  Yolks  3  eggs 

%  cup  walnuts  Whites  2  eggs 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  slowly,  add  egg  yolks  well  beaten.  Sift 
baking  powder  with  flour  and  add  alternately  with  milk.  Keserve 
y±  cup  flour  and  put  with  nuts.  Add  floured  nuts  and  fold  in  beaten 
egg  whites.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  45  min.  Cover  with  frosting. 
Put  walnuts  on  top. 

SPONGE  DEOPS. 

8  egg  whites  1  -3  cup  flour 

1-3  cup  conf.  sugar  %  t.  vanilla 

2  egg  yolks  Vs  t-  sa^ 

Beat  egg  whites  till  dry,  add  sugar  gradually,  continue  beating, 
add  yolks  beaten  till  thick.  Mix  flour  and  salt,  cut  and  fold  in  cover 
pan  with  buttered  paper.  Drop  mixture  from  spoon  or  shape  with 
pastry  bag  and  tube.  Sprinkle  with  confectioner's  sugar.  Bake  in 
hot  oven.       Keniove  quickly  from  paper  with  sharp  knife. 

SWEET  MILK  DOUGHNUTS. 

1  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

4  cups  pastry  flour  2  t.  cream  tartar 

1  t.  soda  1  t.  salt 

%  t.  nutmeg  or  ginger  1  cup  milk 

1  t.  butter  or  lard 
Mix  flour,  cream  tartar,  soda,  salt  and  nutmeg,  reserving  1  cup 
flour.  Beat  eggs  well,  add  sugar,  alternately  add  flour  and  milk,  add 
melted  butter  or  lard,  beat  well.  Add  last  cup  flour,  or  portion,  as 
needed,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Boll  out  only  portion  at  a  time  %  iuch 
thick.  Cut  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  The  amount  of  flour  varies  slightly 
with  the  brand. 

BANANA  FKITTEBS. 

1  C.  flour  1  egg  yolk 

1  t.  baking  powder  1  egg  white 

%  t.  salt  1/2  t.  melted  butter 

1/2  C.  milk 


216  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  slowly,  yolk  of  eggs  beaten  well, 
white  of  egg  beaten  stiff,  and  melted  butter.  Keinove  skins  from  banan- 
as, cut  in  half  lengthwise,  then  in  half  crosswise.  Dip  in  batter  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.      Serve  with  lemon  or  orange  sauce. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 
1  C.  molasses  1  tsp.  soda 

%  C.  butter  and  lard  mixed  2  T.  warm  milk 

2!/2  C.  bread  Hour  1  T.  ginger 

Heat  molasses  to  boiling  point,  add  shortening  which  has  been 
melted,  ginger,  soda  dissolved  in  warm  milk,  and  the  flour.  Chill 
thoroughly.  Toss  14  mixture  on  floured  board,  roll  y8  inch  thick, 
shape  and  place  in  buttered  pan,  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  browned. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

1  C.  sour  milk  1  egg 

2  T.  melted  lard  V2  t.  ginger 

1  t.  soda  Pastry  flour  to  form  soft 

1/2  t.  salt  roll  about  3  C. 

1  C.  sugar 

Add  beaten  egg  to  sugar,  add  sour  milk,  then  add  flour  sifted  with 
soda,  salt  and  ginger.  Add  lard  and  flour  enough  to  roll.  Roll  % 
inch  thick,  shape  with  doughnut  cutter.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  5  min.  Turn 
when  dough  begins  to  crack.       Drain  on  brown  paper. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 

2  eggs  1  t.  soda 

1  C.  sugar  14  C.  milk 

1/2  C.  butter  Flour  to  roll 

2  t.  cream  of  tartar 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  add  egg  well  beaten,  add 
milk,  add  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  sifted  with  flour.  Roll,  shape  and 
bake. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

2  egg  yolks  y%  t.  lemon  juice 

1  C.  sugar  1  C.  flour 

y2  C.  milk  IV2  t.  baking  powder 

!/4  t.  salt  2  egg  whites 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick,  add  y2  sugar  slowly,  then  milk, 
remainder  of  sugar,  beat  well.  Sift  baking  powder  with  flour.  Add 
flour,  salt  and  flavoring.  Lastly  fold  in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  45  to  60  minutes  in  slow  oven. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  217 

SHORT  CAKE  DOUGH. 

2  C.  flour  4  t.  baking  powder 

4  T.  butter  %  C.  milk 

y2  t.  salt 

Mix,  shape  and  bake  in  individual  cakes.  Use  biscuit  cutter. 
Bake,  cut  in  half.  Put  strawberries  slightly  crushed  in  centre  and 
whole  berries  on  top  with  whipped  cream.      Sweeten  crushed  berries. 


Cookery  Phrases 


Au  gratin — with  browned  crumbs. 

En  coquille — in  shells. 

Au  jus — with  gravy. 

Cafe  au  lait — with  hot  milk. 

En  papillote — in  papers. 

Glace — covered  with  icing. 

Jardiniere — garnish  of  mixed  vegetables. 

Au  and  aux — with. 

A  la — dressed  in  certain  style. 

Marinate — to  pickle  or  sprinkle  with  French  dressing. 

Lit — layer. 

Lardoon — piece  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  used  in  larding. 

Meringue — icing  made  of  egg  white  and  sugar. 

Julienne — clear  soup  with  shredded  vegetables. 

Puree — thick  soup  rubbed  through  sieve. 

Ragout — highly  seasoned  stew  flavored  with  wine. 

Souffle — very  light  omelet  or  pudding. 

Eechauffe — any  food  warmed  over. 

Bechamel — white  sauce  of  stock  and  cream. 

Maraschino — a  kind  of  brandy. 

Potage — a  soup. 

Bouchees — very  small  patties. 

Koumiss — milk  fermented  with  yeast. 


Demonstration  of  the 
Fireless-Cooker 

(Baked  beans  and  cornmeal  mush  were  made  in  class,  to  demon- 
strate the  possibilities  of  the  fireless-cooker.) 

The  present  interest  in  fireless-cookers  is  of  comparatively  recent 
date,  although  they  were  used  in  Norway  as  early  as  1867,  and  were 
exhibited  at  that  time  at  some  of  the  continental  fairs.  Little  inter- 
ese  was  taken  in  them.  The  Norwegians,  however,  used  them  right 
along. 

Other  nations  took  them  up  about  ten  years  ago.  The  Germans, 
always  a  progressive  people,  used  them  in  the  army  in  the  form  of  hay- 
boxes. 

The  main  idea,  the  principle  of  the  fireless-cooker  system,  is  that 
it  will  retain,  without  fuel,  all  the  heat  that  is  generated  on  a  flame- 
stove,  for  a  period  varying  from  8  to  15  hours. 

A  fireless-cooker  consists  of  a  box  of  wood  (wood  being  a  very 
poor  conductor  of  heat)  lined  (or  insulated)  with  some  very  poor 
conductor  of  heat — as  sawdust,  hay,  felt,  asbestos,  or  charcoal,  just 
as  a  refrigerator  is  lined.  Asbestos  is  an  exceedingly  poor  conductor 
of  heat. 

This  lining  in  turn  is  covered  with  some  cleanable  material,  as 
zinc,  (this  being  a  very  poor  conductor  of  heat),  and  is  fitted  with 
compartments  into  which  utensils  may  be  set.  These  compartments 
have  closely  fitting  covers  which  are,  in  turn,  covered  with  a  wooden 
zinc-lined  lid  which  may  be  clamped  closely  into  place,  so  as  to  make 
the  box  as  nearly  air-tight  as  can  be. 

In  other  words,  a  fireless-cooker  is  made  as  air-tight  as  possible, 
so  that  a  vacuum  may  be  created  in  so  far  as  possible. 

The  fireless-cooker  may  be  used  to  finish  the  cooking  of  boiled 
meats,  pot  roasts  of  beef,  chicken,  poultry,  corned  beef,  ham ;  or 
dried  vegetables,  fresh  vegetables,  legumes,  cereals,  soups,  apple  sauce, 
steamed  puddings,  etc. 

But  the  fireless-cooker  cannot  be  used  for  articles  whose  chief  at- 
traction lies  in  a  crisp,  brown  surface,  as  roast  beef,  broiled  steak, 
fried  potatoes,  etc.,  because  the  heat  cannot  be  retained  at  so  high  a 
temperature  for  so  long  a  time. 

Nothing  can  be  successfully  raised  to  a  temperature  beyond  that 
generated  in  boiling  water;  and  after  a  few  hours  the  temperature 
drops  a  few  degrees, — e.  g.  water  was  raised  to  the  boiling  point, 
placed  in  the  fireless-cooker  and  allowed  to  remain  five  hours;  at  the 


220  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

expiration  of  that  time  the  temperature  had  dropped  to  190°,  which 
is  just  above  simmering  point. 

It  is  necessary  to  commence  the  cooking  of  all  articles  over  a  free 
flame — a  direct  heat  (no  double-boiler  is  ever  to  be  used),  and  to  cook 
them  in  boiling  liquid  a  certain  length  of  time  over  the  fire  before 
transferring  them  to  the  cooker.  They  must  boil  briskly,  bubbling 
all  over,  during  this  time.  The  following  table  will  serve  as  a  guide 
for  the  length  of  time  required  by  the  various  kinds  of  food  for  this 
previous  cooking: — 

1  hr.  for  cereals. 

30  min.  for  meats. 

10  min.  for  green  vegetables. 

15  min.  for  steamed  puddings. 

30  min.  for  beans  and  legumes. 

Place  the  covers  on  the  vessels,  and  allow  the  mixture  while  still 
boiling  to  cook  5  minutes  covered  before  transferring  to  the  cooker. 
This  is  to  retain  all  the  heat  possible. 

Transfer-  at  once,  and  just  as  quickly  as  possible,  put  down 
the  covers  and  clamp  down  the  lid  as  quickly  as  possible. 

The  general  rule  for  the  time  of  cooking  in  the  fireless-cooker  is 
that  it  shall  be  twice  as  long  as  that  required  in  an  ordinary  stove. 

Nothing  can  be  examined  while  cooking  in  the  cooker,  because  it 
lets  out  heat. 

The  food  cannot  burn  when  cooked  by  the  fireless-cooker  method. 

It  is  better  to  use  too  much  water  than  too  little. 

Articles  requiring  over  8  hours'  cooking  are  improved  by  remov- 
ing at  the  end  of  6  hours,  reheating  and  replacing. 

If  a  very  small  quantity  of  anything  is  to  be  cooked,  there  will 
not  be  sufficient  heat  in  it  to  retain  the  cooking  process.  In  that 
case,  place  the  mixture  in  a  double-boiler,  and  set  the  whole  into  the 
fireless-cooker.  Otherwise  there  is  not  heat  enough  to  last.  If  one 
improvises  a  double-boiler  by  putting  the  boiling  water  into  one  of 
the  kettles  which  fit  into  the  compartments  of  the  cooker,  and  then 
placing  a  smaller  utensil  containing  the  mixture  inside  of  this,  it  will 
be  necessary  to  put  a  trivet  in  the  bottom  of  the  larger  kettle  to  rest 
the  smaller  one  on.      In  this  way  one  gets  the  double  circulation. 

Some  of  the  advantages  of  the  fireless-cooker  as  experienced  by 
some  are  enumerated  below. 

Miss  Anna  Barrows  of  Simmons  College,  and  one  of  the  most 
noted  dietitians  of  the  day,  says : — 

(1)  The  fireless-cooker  requires  no  fuel. 

(2)  The  pots  used  in  the  cookery  are  not  difficult  to  wash,  as  they 

are  not  blackened,  and  they  will  last  indefinitely. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  221 

(3)  The  food  is  thoroughly  cooked,  therefore  a  better  flavor  and  more 

digestible. 

(4)  Kitchen  odors  are  obviated. 

(5)  Time  and  labor  are  saved. 

(6)  There  is  no  need  of  stirring,  no  fear  of  scorching  or  burning. 

(7)  Water  may  be  kept  warm  in  it  for  hours — a  great  help  in  case 

of  sickness  and  in  hot  weather. 

(8)  It  is  a  great  boon  to  campers,  as  they  may  prepare  a  hot  dinner 

without  staying  in  camp. 

(9)  It  is  a  great  advantage  when  used  in  conjunction  with  a  gas 

stove,  for  it  may  be  used  in  long  cooking,  as  for  beans,  ham^ 

etc.,  saving  a  large  amount  of  gas. 

Hutchinson,  perhaps  the  most  noted  of  all  dietitians,  says  that 
the  tireless-cooker  can  be  used  to  keep  ice  cream  cold. 

Fireless-cookers  range  in  price  from  $10  and  $15  up. 

See  Caloric  Book  of  Kecipes  for  fireless.  Published  in  Janesville, 
Wis. 


Formal  Meals 


FORMAL  LUNCHEON. 

A  luncheon  of  six  or  more  covers  to  which  formal  invitations 
have  been  sent,  should  consist  of  six  or  more  courses,  careful  atten- 
tion should  be  given  to  the  selection  of  each  course,  so  that  it  will 
blend  harmoniously  with  the  others,  and  so  that  there  will  be  no  repe- 
tition of  foods  in  any  form.  The  invitation  to  a  formal  luncheon 
should  read  as  follows: 

These  invitations  should  be  answered  within  twenty-four  hours  of 
their  reception.       The  proper  time  for  a  formal  luncheon  is  at  1  or 

Mrs.  Howard  Smith  requests 

the  pleasure  of  Miss  Baker's 

company  at  luncheon, 

October  the  twenty -third, 

Nineteen  hundred  and  eight,  . 

at  1  o'clock,  at 

104  Vernon  Street,  Worcester,  Mass. 

1.30  o'clock,  and  it  is  customary  to  wear  both  hat  and  gloves  10  the 
table.  The  dress  is  the  same  as  for  an  afternoon  reception,  a  silk  or 
light  cloth  gown  or  fancy  waist,  with  a  long  skirt. 

The  guests  must  be  met  at  the  door  by  a  uniformed  maid,  who  di- 
rects them  to  the  dressing  room,  where  another  maid  is  stationed  to 
render  any  needed  assistance.  The  guest  then  goes  to  the  reception 
room,  where  she  is  greeted  by  the  hostess  and  presented  to  other  mem- 
bers of  the  party.  When  there  is  a  guest  of  honor,  all  guests  should 
be  punctual  in  coming,  so  to  be  ready  to  be  presented  upon  her  ar- 
rival. 

At  the  stated  time  the  maid  announces  that  ''Luncheon  is  served," 
and  the  guests  pass  informally  to  the  dining  room,  where  their  places 
at  table  are  designated  by  place  cards,  on  which  is  written  the  name  of 
the  guest  to  occupy  that  particular  seat.  The  guest  of  honor  is  seat- 
ed at  the  right  of  the  hostess,  and  if  there  are  two  guests  of  honor,  the 
other  at  the  left.  It  is  customary  to  carry  out  a  color  scheme  in  both 
decorations  and  menu,  as  a  yellow  luncheon,  a  green  luncheon  for  St. 
Patrick's  day,  etc.,  and  the  place  cards  usually  carry  out  the  idea,  too. 
The  centre  piece  should  cover  the  same  idea. 

If  the  dining  table  is  of  very  handsome  wood  it  may  be  left  bare, 
using  small  doilies  under  the  plates  and  dishes  and  a  centrepiece. 
This  is  a  rare  opportunity  to  display  artistic  embroideries,  but  the 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK. 


223 


plain  damask  tablecloth  is  always  in  good  form.      The  covers  are  set 
according  to  the  following  diagram: 


O 


TUMBLER 


SERVICE  PLATE 


and  consist  of  the  necessary  plate,  knives,  spoons,  forks,  glasses,  etc, 
Allow  at  least  20  inches  for  each  person  and  more  for  elbow  room  if 
possible.  At  each  cover  place  the  best  10-inch  plate  you  have.  This 
is  called  the  "service  plate,"  and  is  to  be  left  on  until  the  first  hot 
course  after  the  soup  is  served.  The  service  plate  should  be  placed 
exactly  in  the  middle  of  the  space  allotted  to  each  person,  and  about  1 
inch  from  the  edge  of  the  table.  Place  at  the  right  of  service  plate 
as  many  knives  as  will  be  required  before  the  dessert,  each  one  with 
the  sharp  edge  turned  toward  the  plate  and  in  the  order  in  which  they 
will  be  needed,  beginning  at  the  extreme  right.  At  the  right  of  the 
knives  place  the  spoon  for  soup,  with  the  inside  of  the  bowl  turned  up 
and  then  the  fork  or  spoon  for  first  course  last.  At  the  left  place  as 
many  forks  as  will  be  needed  before  dessert  in  the  order  in  which  they 
will  be  needed,  beginning  with  the  first  fork  and  going  from  left  to 
right.  Place  forks  with  tines  up.  If  there  are  not  many  courses 
the  dessert  fork  or  spoon  may  be  placed  on  the  table  at  the  beginning, 
the  fork  next  to  the  plate  with  other  forks,  the  spoons  in  front  of  the 
date.  After-dinner  coffee  spoons  are  passed  in  saucers  with  the 
cups.  At  upper  right  hand  corner  over  knives  place  glass  for  water. 
The  napkins  should  be  of  medium  size  and  placed  folded  at  the  left. 
The  luncheon  cards  should  be  placed  on  the  napkin. 

A  few  words  on  decoration  may  be  said.  Aim  to  have  things  sim- 
ple, but  artistic ;  avoid  any  appearance  of  millinery ;  do  not  have  high 
centre  piece  or  a  great  display  of  flowers.  A  beautiful  silver  or  glass 
bowl  filled  with  an  artistic  arrangement  of  flowers  and  vines  placed 
upon  a  lovely  centre  piece  is  enough.  Individual  flowers,  as  bunches 
of  violets,  daffodils,  etc.,  are  often  placed  in  front  or  across  the  ser- 
vice plate,  and  are  an  appreciated  attention. 


224  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

A  wreath  or  vine  around  the  outer  edge  of  the  table  is  proper  for 
formal  luncheon. 

Small  silver  or  glass  dishes  containing  relishes,  bonbons  and 
salted  nuts  are  usually  placed  on  the  table.  Butter  dishes  or  bread 
and  butter  plates  are  never  used  at  a  formal  luncheon.  It  is  sup- 
posed that  care  has  been  taken  to  supply  each  course  with  all  re- 
quirements in  the  way  of  seasonings,  and  sauces  and  condiments  are 
served  as  they  are  needed. 

A  formal  luncheon  is  usually  served  from  the  pantry  in  individual 
servings,  the  waitress  having  tray  in  left  hand,  putting  plate  contain- 
ing the  portion  upon  it,  taking  it  to  the  right  side  of  each  guest  and 
with  the  right  hand  placing  it  upon  the  service  plate  until  after  the 
puree  course,  which  is  removed  with  the  service  plate,  then  setting 
it  in  front  of  each  guest  and  close  to  the  edge  of  the  table.  The  soup 
or  puree  is  always  served  in  two-handled  bouillon  cups.  If  anything 
is  to  be  passed  it  should  be  placed  on  the  tray  and  passed  to  the  left 
side  of  each  guest,  being  held  low  enough  to  enable  the  guest  to  help 
hinise]f  with  his  right  hand. 

If  the  method  of  always  having  a  plate  before  each  guest  until 
dessert  is  followed,  then  the  tray  should  be  dispensed  with  in  placing 
the  course.  Eemove  from  the  right  with  the  left  hand  and  place  the 
following  course  on  empty  service  plate,  with  the  right  hand  always 
from  the  right. 

Pass  to  the  left  of  guest. 

Eemove  from  the  right  of  guest. 

Place  at  the  right  of  guest. 

Guests  should  be  served  in  rotation,  commencing  with  the  guest 
of  honor,  so  that  no  one  will  always  be  served  last.  To  remove  each 
course  wait  until  every  one  has  finished,  then  take  tray  in  left  hand 
and  with  the  right  hand  remove  plate  from  the  right,  placing  it  upon 
the  tray.  If  the  knife  or  fork  is  accidentally  left  upon  the  table  by 
a  thoughtless  guest,  it  should  be  taken  up  quietly  and  put  on  the  plate 
on  the  tray.  Do  not  .remove  more  than  one  plate  at  a  time,  or  all 
belonging  to  the  course  at  each  cover.  It  is  very  bad  form  to  pile  one 
plate  on  top  of  another  when  clearing  the  table. 

Eemember  two  things,  that  guests  are  invited  for  social  inter- 
course, and  that  the  machinery  of  serving  should  run  so  smoothly  and 
quietly  that  there  will  be  no  interruption  to  the  conversation.  The 
most  successful  entertainment  is  the  one  that  is  so  simply  and  quietly 
served  as  to  be  beyond  criticism. 

The  proper  dress  of  the  maid  is  black  with  white  linen  collar  and 
cuffs,  white  bib  apron  and  white  cap.  Her  shoes  should  be  rubber- 
soled  and  her  movements  noiseless. 

It  is  not  the  correct  thing  to  use  a  brush  and  crumb  tray,  but  a 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK. 


225 


finger  napkin  and  plate.    It  is  not  correct  to  use  a  menu  card  at  a  pri- 
vate luncheon. 


FORMAL  LUNCHEON. 

October  26th,  1900.— Time  1  P.  M. 

Grape  fruit  (g.  oysters) 

Cream  of  cucumber  soup   (g.  egg-balls) 

Royal  sticks 

Fricassee  of  chicken — egg  sauce 

Rice  croquettes,  celery  curls 

Squash  rolls 

Marguerite  salad,  cheese  wafers 

French  ice  cream  in  sponge  baskets 

Salted  peanuts,  candied  orange  peel 

Coffee 

LIST  OF  DISHES. 


Pass  toast 

6  medium  plates 

size) 

sticks 

6  service  plates 

6  teaspoons 

Pass  celery  and 

6  salad  plates 

6  small  plates,  6  doilies 

rolls 

6  service  plates 

6  bouillon  spoons 

Pass  wafers 

6  small  plates 

6  forks 

6  service  plates 

6  small  coffee  cups 

6  knives 

6  grape  fruit 

2  small  fancy  dishes 

6  forks 

6  finger  bowls 

for  bonbons  and 

6  forks 

6  bouillon  cups 

bonbon  spoons 

G  small  spoons 

6  service  plates 

6  napkins  (medium 

A  FORMAL  DINNER. 
A  formal  dinner  does  not  differ  very  much  in  point  of  etiquette, 
serving,  etc.,  from  a  formal  luncheon. 

INVITATIONS. 
As  for  the  formal  luncheon,  the  invitations  should  be  written  in 
the  third  person;  the  form  is  the  same.       They  should  be  sent  two 
weeks  before  the  dinner  is  to  be  given. 


ACCEPTANCE. 

The  acceptance  should  be  written  in  the  third  person  also,  and 
should  repeat  everything  that  is  written  in  the  invitation  in  regard 
to  time,  place,  etc.  Invitations  should  be  answered  within  twenty- 
four  hours  of  their  reception. 


22G  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

TIME. 

The  proper  time  for  a  formal  dinner  is  8.00  P.  M.  The  guests 
should  arrive  15  or  20  minutes  before  the  designated  time.  If  there 
is  a  guest  of  honor,  the  guests  should  be  punctual  so  as  to  be  presented 
to  her. 

DBESS. 

A  formal  dinner  calls  for  full  dress.  This  is  a  chance  for  the 
display  of  much  jewelry.  The  ladies  wear  decollete  gowns, — low  neck 
and  short  sleeves,  or  very  thin  lace  sleeves,  or  the  like  if  long  sleeves 
are  worn.  With  short  sleeves,  long  gloves  should  be  worn,  removing 
the  hand  portion  at  table  and  turning  it  at  the  wrist ;  or  if  this  cannot 
be  done  readily,  it  is  perfectly  proper  to  remove  the  glove  entirely. 
Of  course,  short  gloves  are  removed  at  table.  No  hats  should  be 
worn.  The  hair  is  to  be  dressed  with  ribbons,  aigrettes,  fancy  combs, 
flowers,  or  any  kind  of  hair  ornaments.  The  display  at  a  formal  din- 
ner is  mostly  in  the  dress  and  the  silver  displayed  upon  the  table. 

The  entrance  and  presentation  of  guests,  the  conduct  of  the  guest 
of  honor,  the  announcing  of  dinner,  and  the  entrance  and  seating  of 
the  guests  in  the  dining-room,  are  quite  as  for  the  formal  luncheon. 

TABLE  DECORATION. 

For  a  formal  dinner,  the  decoration  should  be  only  round  the 
centre  of  the  table;  for  a  luncheon,  it  can  be  around  the  edge  of  the 
table,  but  never  for  a  dinner.  A  centerpiece  of  flowers  is  appro- 
priate. As  above  mentioned,  most  of  the  display  is  in  the  dress 
and  table  silver. 

PLACE  CARDS. 

Place  cards  are  not  decorated  much  for  a  formal  dinner;  they 
can  be  decorated,  but  if  so,  the  decoration  must  be  very  simple,  with- 
out color.  We  remember  that  color  Was  permissible,  and  even  desir- 
able, for  a  luncheon.  Never,  in  any  place  card,  use  the  Christian 
name  unless  there  are  to  be  more  than  one  of  the  same  surname.  It 
should  be  simply  "Miss  White,"  etc. 

TABLE  COVERING. 
The -table  at  a  formal  dinner  must  always  be  covered  with  a  linen 
or  damask  table  cloth;  at  a  luncheon,  it  is  very  proper  to  use  the  bare 
table  with  doilies  and  centrepieces  to  match;  in  fact,  it  is  better  so. 
As  stated  before,  the  table  cloth  for  a  dinner  must  be  linen  or  damask. 
Underneath  this  must  go  a  silence  cloth.  On  each  side  of  the  table, 
14  of  a  yard  of  the  table  cloth  should  hang  over  the  edge;  a  table 
cloth  with  many  creases  and  folds  is  not  permissible  at  a  formal 
dinner.       It  is  better  to  have  it  laundered  with  a  single  fold;  when 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  227 

this  is  done,  the  cloth  is  rolled  on  a  long  roller  to  keep  it  fresh  until 
needed.  It  is,  however,  proper  to  have  but  one  crease,  if  any,  in  the 
table  cloth.  This  should  extend  through  the  centre  of  the  cloth 
lengthwise.  It  is  well  to  have  asbestos  mats  under  the  doilies  usee) 
about  the  table  for  dinner.  Square  tables  have  square  doilies  and 
centrepieces,  while  round  tables  have  round  doilies  and  centrepieces. 
All  doilies  and  centrepieces  must  match.  Paper  doilies  may  be  used, 
provided  one  has  a  cloth  centrepiece  to  match. 

NAPKINS. 

In  folding  the  napkins,  the  top  square  of  the  last  fold  should 
present  the  selvedge  and  hem.  Fold  the  napkin  again ;  place  it,  when 
setting  the  table,  to  the  extreme  left  of  the  plate  beyond  the  forks, 
with  the  inside  of  the  fold  toward  the  plate.  The  place  card  is  placed 
crosswise  upon  the  napkin. 

MENU. 

A  formal  dinner  has  a  great  many  courses  and  a  great  deal  of 
silver  is  used.  The  usual  number  of  courses  is  8.  10  or  12.  The  din- 
ner of  12  courses  is  the  most  strictly  formal ;  it  makes  a  very  heavy  for- 
mal dinner,  and  is  really  too  heavy  for  women.  In  making  out  the 
menu,  the  hostess  should  take  great  care  not  to  repeat  flavors  or 
dishes  throughout  the  courses.  Of  course,  it  is  highly  improper  to 
use  menu  cards. 

SETTING  OF  TABLE. 

The  table  is  set  quite  as  for  the  formal  luncheon,  having  at  least 
20  inches  between  each  guest. 

SEKVICE  PLATE.  At  each  cover  is  placed  a  10-inch  service 
plate;  it  should  be  one  inch  from  the  edge  of  the  table.  This  service 
plate  is  to  be  left  on  until  the  first  hot  course  after  the  soup. 

SILVER.  One  should  not  entertain  so  extensively  at  dinner,  as 
not  to  have  enough  silver  to  put  on  at  once  all  that  will  be  needed  for 
all  the  courses.  Some  people,  however,  consider  it  vulgar  to  display 
so  much  silver  on  the  table  at  once ;  for  a  12-course  dinner  there  would 
be  at  least  12  pieces  of  silver  needed  at  each  cover.  Some  courses 
will  need  no  silver,  while  others  will  need  two  pieces.  In  case  one 
has  not  enough  silver,  or  dislikes  the  display,  one  can  bring  in  the 
silver  by  installments;  i.  e.  in  setting  the  table,  one  lays  only  enough 
silver  for  2  or  3,  or  3  or  4  courses,  and  brings  in  with  each  succeeding 
course  just  enough  silver  for  that  course.  In  bringing  in  the  silver 
this  way,  it  is  nicest  to  use  a  silver  tray,  having  thereon  enough  silver 
for  all  covers  for  that  one  course.  In  distributing  this  silver,  never 
reach  in  front  of  any  guest;  merely  go  to  the  left  of  the  guest,  laying 
the  fork,  and  then  to  the  right,  laying  the  knife  or  spoon — i.  e.  lay 


228  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

all  the  silver  necessary  at  each  cover  before  going  on  to  the  next. 
The  silver  for  each  course,  when  brought  in  by  installments,  should 
be  laid  before  the  course  is  served. 

There  are  two  ways  in  which  the  silver  may  be  laid,  as  regards 
its  order.  One  way,  which  is  perhaps  the  least  confusing  to  the 
guests,  is  as  follows:  When  both  a  knife  and  fork  are  needed,  the 
forks  are  placed  at  the  left  of  the  plate  and  one  inch  from  the  edge  of 
the  table  (laid  in  the  order  needed,  from  the  extreme  left  in  towards 
the  plate)  ;  the  knives  are  placed  at  the  right  of  the  plate,  and  one 
inch  from  the  edge  of  the  table  (laid  in  the  order  needed,  going  from 
the  extreme  right  in  towards  the  plate.  But  here's  the  point  wherein 
this  method  differs  from  the  other: — if  only  a  fork  or  a  spoon  (as  for 
an  entree  or  the  soup)  is  needed  for  a  course,  it  should  be  placed  to 
the  right  of  the  plate  with  the  knives  and  arranged  in  the  order 
needed.  This  makes  it  less  awkward  and  confusing  for  the  guest  to 
select  the  silver  for  each  course,  but  does  not  make  the  table  look  so 
attractive.* 

The  other  method  of  setting  the  silver  is  the  same  as  described 
in  the  lecture  on  the  formal  luncheon. 

GLASSES.  Place  the  glasses  at  the  upper  right  hand  corner  of 
the  plate,  just  above  the  top  of  the  knife.  The  glasses  should  be  rilled 
with  water  just  before  the  guests  enter  the  dining  room.  Fill  them 
only  about  two-thirds  full. 

SALTS  and  PEPPERS.  It  is  not  customary  to  use  these  at  a 
formal  meal;  but  they  can  be  used.  They  should  be  placed  just  above 
the  serving  plate  and  in  the  centre.  They  must  always  be  removed 
just  before  the  dessert  course. 

BUTTER.  Butter  should  not  be  used  at  a  formal  dinner — i.  e. 
to  be  strictly  formal. 

RELISHES,  as  olives,  radishes,  celery,  etc.,  are  placed  on  the 
table  before  the  entrance  of  the  guests.  They  are  put  in  small  fancy 
dishes  (not  individual)  and  are  to  be  passed  by  the  waitress.  They 
must  be  removed  just  before  the  dessert  course.  They  should  be  so 
placed  on  the  table  that  the  waitress  can  conveniently  reach  them. 
They  are  passed  with  the  fish,  game  and  roast  courses. 

"BON  BONS  and  SALTED  NUTS.  These  are  to  be  placed  upon 
the  table  before  the  entrance  of  the  guests  and  are  to  be  passed  just 
as  the  relishes,  but  are  not  to  be  removed  before  the  dessert  course. 
They  are  passed  with  the  dessert  or  with  the  eleventh  course. 

ORDER  OF  COURSES. 

1st  course  consists  of  grape  fruit  or  cocktails,  or  canapes. 

2nd  course — Clear  soup,  as  bouillon  or  consomme — never  a  heavy 

*  Always  remember  to  set  only  the  silver  which  will  be  needed 
before  the  dessert. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  229 

soup.  With  this  course  is  generally  served  a  bread  stick  or  a  cheese 
straw  or  a  plain  half  cracker. 

3rd  course — The  fish  course. 

4th  course — An  entree  course  consisting  of  any  of  the  following: 
Small  meat  or  chicken  croquettes,  timbales,  macaroni,  sweetbreads, 
chicken  livers  served  in  croustades,  mushrooms,  or  any  proteid  food. 
All  of  these  can  be  served  with  or  without  a  sauce.  The  sauce  used 
should  be  either  a  plain  white  sauce  or  a  drawn  butter  sauce.  Kolls 
can  be  served  with  this  course. 

5th  course — The  roast  course.  Any  roast  as  lamb,  beef,  pig,  pork, 
bear,  veal,  venison,  can  be  used.  Turkey  or  chicken  can  be  used,  but 
some  people  consider  them  as  game.  Gravies  and  almost  any  kind 
of  vegetables  are  included  in  this  course.  One  kind  of  vegetable  is 
generally  used  beside  potato. 

6th  course — The  vegetables  entrees  consisting  of  spinach,  celery  or 
asparagus  in  croustades;  or  some  kind  of  fritters,  especially  fruit 
fritters,  as  banana  or  apple  with  orange  sauce. 

7th  course — The  first  cold  course,  some  kind  of  sherbet,  as  grape, 
milk  or  lemon. 

8th  course.  The  game  course,  consisting  of  pigeon  pie,  partridge 
pie,  squab  pie,  broiled  quail,  roast  duck  or  the  like.  Dressing  or  mar- 
malade, jelly,  or  spiced  grape,  are  generally  served  with  this  course. 

9th  course — The  salad  course.  Any  kind  of  salad  can  be  served, 
but  preferably  some  very  small  light  salad,  as  jellied  tomato  salad. 
Small  sandwiches,  as  brown  bread  and  cheese,  can  be  served  in 
this  course. 

10th  course — The  dessert.  This  should  be  ice  cream  or  frozen 
pudding. 

11th  course — Thin  wafers,  with  cheese  or  small  fruits,  as  raisins, 
figs  and  dates. 

12th  course — Cafe  noir — i.  e.  very  strong  black  coffee. 

The  above  outline  contains  enough  for  a  twelve-course  dinner: 
this,  however,  can  be  shortened  by  leaving  out  the  entree  courses,  but 
in  that  case  one  should  serve  a  sandwich  with  the  soup  or  the  saiad 
course. 

EXPLANATION  OF  COUESES. 
1st  course.  Meant  as  an  appetizer.  If  grape  fruit  is  served,  of 
course  finger  bowls  will  have  to  be  brought  in  at  the  end  of  the  course; 
orange  spoons  should  be  put  on  when  the  table  is  set  and  should  come 
to  the  extreme  right  of  the  knives,  being  placed  one  inch  from  the 
1able\s  edge.  If  fruit  cocktails  are  served  a  spoon  is  best;  but  for 
clam  or  oyster  cocktails  a  fork  is  used.  Should  canapes  be  used  for 
the  first  course,  it  might  be  well  to  explain  what  they  are.  A  canape 
is  really  a  form  of  sandwich  and  is  to  be  eaten  from  the  fingers.      It 


230  TEE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

consists  of  a  tiny  piece  of  rather  dry  bread  or  toasted  or  sauted  bread 
or  a  cracker;  this  is  spread  with  soft  cheese  or  a  paste  of  some  kind 
(as  anchovy)  or  salmon  or  yolk  of  hard-cooked  egg  or  anything  of  like 
nature.  Sometimes  another  slice  of  bread  is  placed  on  top  of  this; 
if  not,  the  canape  is  generally  decorated  or  garnished  in  some  design. 
Sometimes  a  cherry  is  placed  on  top;  sometimes  chopped  olives  are 
used  for  a  garnish;  almost  anything  can  be  used  for  this  purpose. 
Usually  the  canapes  are  cut  in  rather  fancy  shapes  about  2  inches  in 
diameter;  the  slices  should  be  nice  and  thin.  Use  a  simple  tea  plate 
or  a  bread  and  butter  plate  for  serving  the  canapes.  Of  course  the 
service  plate  is  always  under  the  first  course  plate. 

2nd  course.  It  is  not  good  form  to  serve  heavy  soups  like  purees 
at  formal  dinners;  serve  clear  soups  as  consomme  or  bouillon.  They 
can  be  served  either  in  soup  plates  or  bouillon  cups.  It  is  better, 
however,  to  serve  the  soup  in  soup  plates  for  a  dinner,  and  in  bouillon 
cups  for  a  luncheon.  Have  the  plate  or  cup  only  about  two-thirds 
full,  and  always  have  thje  service  plate  underneath.  The  bread-stick 
or  whatever  of  that  nature  is  to  be  eaten  with  the  soup,  should  be 
placed  in  the  fold  of  the  napkin  before  the  guests  enter  the  dining 
room.  Croutons  are  not  served  with  a  clear  soup;  they  are  all 
right  for  purees.  If  a  soup-jdate  is  used,  place  a  soup  spoon  at 
each  cover;  if  a  bouillon  cup,  use  bouillon  spoons. 

3rd  course.  The  service  plate  must  be  removed,  this  being  the 
first  hot  course  after  the  soup.  A  small  silver  knife  and  fork  will  be 
needed  for  this,  the  fish  course.  If  the  fish  is  to  be  served  in  the  shell, 
ordinary  clam  or  oyster  shells  are  pretty  to  use;  but  they  must  be 
thoroughly  sterilized  by  boiling  2  or  3  minutes  in  water.  The  very 
hard  clam  shells,  which  are  almost  circular  in  shape  and  which  have 
a  dark  blue  border  on  the  inside  of  the  shell,  are  well  adapted  to  this 
use.  (It  is  a  good  plan  to  save  up  the  most  perfect  shells  one  comes 
across  and  keep  them  in  a  tightly  covered  tin  pail.)  When  serving 
place  the  shell  in  the  centre  of  the  plate.  One  can  hold  the  shell 
with  the  fingers  to  steady  it  while  eating  the  fish ;  or  one  can  steady 
the  shell  with  the  knife. 

4th  course.  An  entree  course.  It  is  the  "entrance  to"  the 
course  preceding  the  chief  hot  course.  For  this,  a  small  knife  and  fork, 
such  as  was  used  for  the  fish,  will  be  needed.  Sometimes  only  a 
fork  will  suffice.  Any  proteid  food  can  be  used  for  this  course;  mush- 
rooms are  especially  good,  being  very  rich  in  proteid  and  greatly 
resembling  meat  in  this  respect.  Of  the  list  given  above  to  choose 
from  the  macaroni  is  the  only  food  that  is  not  proteid,  and  yet  it  is 
excellent  for  such  an  entree.  Eolls  or  bread  without  butter  can  be 
served  with  this  course  or  the  salad  course,  but  are  not  needed.  Tim- 
bales  should  only  be  filled  one-half  full. 

5th  course.      The  roast  course.      A  large  dinner  fork  and  a  large 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  231 

dinner  knife,  of  steel,  should  be  used;  also  a  large  dinner 
plate.  Vegetables  and  gravies  are  included  in  this  course  and 
are  put  on  the  same  plate  with  the  roast.  A  brown  gravy  or  mush- 
room sauce  are  either  of  them  good  to  serve  here,  though  the  mush- 
room sauce  must  not  be  used  if  mushrooms  appear  anywhere  else  on 
the  menu,  e.  g.  in  an  entree  course.  Almost  any  kind  of  vegetable 
can  be  used,  but  preferably  vegetables  which  are  not  soft  and  "mushy," 
as  baked  squash ;  beets,  etc. ;  otherwise  if  the  vegetable  is  soft  and  wet, 
it  must  be  served  on  a  little  plate  at  the  upper  left  of  the  large  plate. 
It  is  much  better  to  put  the  vegetables  on  the  large  plate  with  the  mear, 
so  select  as  dry  ones  as  possible.  It  is  customary  to  serve  one  veg- 
etable beside  potato  with  this  couse.  Put  a  tablespoonful  of  gravy 
on  the  plate  with  the  meat,  but  by  no  means  ON  the  meat  or  potato; 
so  that  if  a  person  does  not  care  for  it  they  will  not  be  obliged  to  eat 
it.  Also  if  squash  is  served,  place  a  tablespoonful  of  that  on  the  same 
plate,  and  if  potato  roses  are  served,  put  two  of  them  on  the  plate 
also. 

6th  course.  This  is  the  vegetable  entree  to  precede  the  1st  cold 
course.  A  small  fork  will  be  needed  here.  The  croustades  needed 
for  this  course  can  be  cut  out  of  bread  or  else  be  made  out  of  regular 
croustade  batter,  which  is  similar  to  puff  paste.  If  fritters  are  served 
with  some  kind  of  sauce,  put  the  sauce  on  the  same  plate  at  one  side 
of  the  fritter. 

7th  course.  The  first  cold  course.  The  sherbet  should  be  served 
in  sherbet  glasses;  set  a  doily  on  a  small  plate  and  place  the  sherbet 
cup  on  the  centre  of  the  doily.  If  the  sherbet  is  rather  stiff  it  can  be 
eaten  with  a  fork ;  otherwise  a  spoon  should  be  used.  A  spoon  can  be 
used  anyway,  no  matter  what  the  condition  of  the  sherbet  may  be. 

8th  course.  The  game  course.  If  a  whole  bird  is  to  be  served 
each  guest,  as,  for  instance,  is  done  with  broiled  quail,  never  serve  a 
large  one.  If  any  sauce  or  condiment  is  served,  as  is  generally  the 
case,  it  should  be  put  on  the  same  plate.  Put  only  a  small  quantity, 
as  one-half  teaspoonful  of  marmalade  on  each  plate.  Use  a  breakfast 
plate,  a  fork,  and  a  steel  knife  for  this  course.  Always  use  a  steel 
knife  for  the  game  and  the  roast. 

9th  course.  The  salad  course.  A  fork  will  be  needed  for  this. 
A  small  sandwich  or  roll,  or  bread,  can  be  served  with  the  salad  if 
wished,  and  should  be  served  on  the  same  piate.  The  service  plate 
should  be  brought  in  again  with  this  course,  for  the  following  course 
is  the  dessert,  and  the  table  will  have  to  be  crumbed  between  the 
courses,  so  there  would  be  nothing  in  front  of  the  guest  if  the  service 
plate  were  not  brought. 

10th  course.  The  dessert  course.  The  ice  cream  should  be  eaten 
with  a  small  fork,  if  it  is  stiff,  but  with  a  spoon  if  it  is  soft. 

11th  course.       Thin  wafers  and  small  fruits.       These  fruits  are 


232  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

eaten  from  the  fingers,  so  the  finger  bowls  should  be  brought  in  at  the 
close  of  this  course. 

12th  course.  If  the  coffee  is  to  be  served  in  the  drawing-room, 
the  hostess  rises  first.  If  there  are  men  in  the  party  they  remain  in 
the  dining-room,  for  their  coffee  and  smoke.  Oftentimes  the  coffee 
is  served  in  the  dining-room  for  all,  and,  of  course,  there  is  no  smok- 
ing then;  but  the  former  is  considered  best  when  men  are  present. 
When  serving  the  coffee  in  the  drawing-room,  tbe  waitress  carries  but 
one  cup  at  a  time  on  a  small  silver  tray.  The  tray  should  be  cov- 
ered with  a  doily.  An  after-dinner  coffee  cup  is  smaller  than  the 
other  kind  of  coffee  cups.  The  spoon,  which  is  a  small  one,  should 
be  placed  on  the  saucer.  After  passing  the  coffee  the  waitress  should 
pass  the  sugar  and  creamer;  these  are  also  to  be  served  from  the  tray 
covered  with  a  doily.  The  cover  is  to  be  removed  from  the  sugar  and 
the  tongs  must  be  placed  conveniently  handy.  Though  it  is  the  duty 
of  the  waitress  to  pass  her  tray  to  each  one  of  the  guests,  it  is  very 
improper  for  any  one  to  accept  the  proffered  sugar  or  cream.  One 
must  never  partake,  and  yet  propriety  demands  that  they  be  offered. 
Even  though  the  party  be  comprised  wholly  of  ladies,  the  coffee  is 
often  served  in  tbe  drawing-room,  but  never  there  for  men. 

The  waitress  should  be  ever  watchful  that  no  one  has  chance  to 
lay  their  empty  cup  and  saucer  down  when  they  are  through  with  it. 
She  should  be  on  the  alert,  ready  to  take  them  out  on  her  tray  at 
once.  It  is  perfectly  proper  that  2  or  3  cups  be  removed  at  a  time, 
but  only  one  should  be  brought  in  at  a  time. 

SERVING  THE  DINNER. 

This  is  practically  the  same  as  for  the  luncheon.  Remember 
that  the  guest  is  never  to  be  left  without  something  before  him;  this 
explains  why  the  service  plate  is  called  into  use. 

Always  remove  dishes  from  the  right  of  the  guest;  also  place 
courses  from  the  right  of  the  guest,  and  pass  dishes  to  the  left  of  the 
guest.  This  can  be  remembered  better  as  follows:  "Remove  from 
the  right,  place  to  the  right,  and  pass  to  the  left." 

Since  both  the  removing  and  placing  are  done  from  the  right,  it 
is  much  easier  to  use  one's  left  hand  in  removing  a  course,  while  at 
the  same  time  placing  the  new  course  with  the  right  hand.  This 
saves  having  a  long  wait,  is  much  quicker  and  less  awkward  than  if 
both  things  were  done  with  the  right  hand;  one  can  always  do  it  this 
way  unless  using  a  tray  to  bring  in  and  remove  courses.  Hence  many 
prefer  not  to  use  a  tray. 

In  passing  a  dish  to  the  left  of  the  guest,  though  not  necessary,  it 
is  much  more  convenient  to  use  the  left  hand.  One  is  less  likely  to 
bump  into  the  guest. 

TO  BE  PASSED.      The  relishes,  bon  bons  and  salted  nuts,  which 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  233 

were  placed  on  the  table  before  the  guests  entered  the  dining-room, 
are  to  be  passed  at  different  times.  It  is  well  to  have  the  dishes  con- 
taining them  so  placed  as  to  be  of  easy  access  to  the  waitress;  a  good 
way  is  to  place  them  towards  the  corners  of  the  table,  or  so  that  they 
can  be  reached  from  the  corners.  This  is  less  likely  to  disturb  the 
guests.       Never  pass  anything  but  once. 

RELISHES.  These  are  all  to  be  passed  before  the  dessert  course, 
and  must  be  removed  just  before  the  dessert  course.  They  are  usual- 
ly served  with  the  fish,  roast  and  sometimes  the  game  courses,  and 
must  be  selected  for  their  appropriateness  or  fitness  to  the  course  with 
which  they  are  to  be  served.  Pickled  things  are  generally  passed 
with  the  fish  course.  A  good  choice  is  as  follows :  Stuffed  olives 
with  the  fish  course;  celery  curls  with  the  roast  course;  radish  roses 
with  the  game  course.  Remember  to  remove  all  relish  dishes  before 
crumbing  the  table. 

SALTED  NUTS  AND  BON  BONS.  These  are  to  be  passed  with 
and  after  the  dessert  course,  but  each  thing  must  not  be  passed  more 
than  once.  A  good  way  is  to  pass  the  salted  uuts  with  the  ice  cream 
and  the  bon  bons  with  the  wafer  course. 

SAUCES,  GRAVIES  AND  CONDIMENTS  are  generally  put  ou 
the  plate  with  the  course  with  which  they  are  to  be  served.  This,  of 
course,  is  done  before  bringing  the  course  into  the  dining-room.  Never, 
under  any  consideration,  pour  the  sauce  or  gravy  over  the  food,  for 
some  might  not  care  for  it;  but  rather  place  about  a  tablespoonful 
on  the  plate  beside  the  food.  With  a  condiment  often  a  smaller 
quantity  is  desired;  maybe  a  half  teaspoonful  to  a  full  teaspoontul. 
With  some  salads  it  is  desirous  that  the  dressing  should  be  on  one 
side  so  as  not  to  spoil  the  attractive  appearance  of  the  salad;  in  that 
case  put  about  a  tablespoonful  on  one  side,  either  on  the  lettuce  leaf  or 
on  the  plate  itself,  preferably  the  former. 

FINGER  BOWLS  should  always  be  brought  in  and  placed  after 
the  fruit  courses  for  a  dinner;  whereas,  at  a  formal  breakfast  they 
are  put  on  the  table  when  it  is  set. 

GLASSES  should  be  filled  when  needed  during  the  meal,  but  only 
about  2-3  full.  Never  lift  the  glass  to  do  this,  but  step  up  and  pour 
the  water  into  it  from  a  pitcher  or  water  bottle. 

WINES.  It  is  proper  to  serve  two  or  three  kinds  of  wine  if  de- 
sired,— light  wines  if  for  ladies  and  heavy  wines  if  for  men.  They 
should  be  served  in  wine  glasses  and  arranged  in  a  semi-circle  above 
the  tip  of  the  knife.  If  only  one  wine  is  served,  place  it  just  to  the 
right  of  the  glass  of  water. 

BREAD  OR  ROLLS  can  be  served  at  a  formal  dinner.  They  are 
generally  placed  in  the  napkins,  one  roll,  one  piece  of  bread,  or  one 
sandwich  at  each  cover.  Do  not  butter  the  bread,  but  sometimes  the 
rolls  are  served  buttered.       In  that  case,  open  the  roll,  spread  lightly 


234  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

with  butter  and  press  together,  taking  care  that  no  butter  oozes  out 
or  that  anything  shows  that  it  has  been  buttered.  Bolls,  bread,  or 
sandwiches  can  be  served  with  the  first  entree  course  or  the  salad 
course,  but  are  not  needed.  If  a  bread  stick  or  the  like  is  ready  in 
the  napkin  to  be  used  for  the  soup  course,  the  roll  can  be  put  on  bread 
plate  or  served  on  plate  with  entree. 

TO  CRUMB  TABLE.  This  should  be  done  just  before  the  des- 
sert course.  Always  have  a  service  plate  before  the  guest  while 
crumbing  the  table. 

Contrary  to  the  custom  at  a  formal  luncheon,  we  use  a  silver 
crumb  tray  with  a  silver  scraper  or  a  silver  knife  in  crumbing  the 
table  at  a  formal  dinner.  The  sharp  edge  of  the  knife  is  to  be  used. 
Crumb  from  both  or  either  side  of  the  guest  and  brush  ONLY  whei 
you  see  crumbs.  If  a  guest  happens  to  be  leaning  over,  by  no  means 
inconvenience  her  to  crumb  the  cloth. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

For  a  formal  meal,  everything  should  be  served  from  the  butler's 
pantry  in  individual  servings.  It  is  permissible  to  have  the  meat 
carved  at  table  for  a  dinner  or  breakfast,  but  never  for  a  luncheon. 
It  is,  however,  not  as  good  form  to  serve  en  masse  on  the  table,  and 
the  other  method  is  much  to  be  preferred.  The  waitress  should  be 
taught  to  carry  a  plate  without  having  her  thumb  bent  over  its  edge. 
There  is  a  way  to  hold  the  plate  firmly,  steadying  it  with  the  rest  of 
the  hand,  palm  upwards  underneath  the  plate. 

The  movements  of  the  waitress  should  be  noiseless  and  she  should 
go  about  her  work  as  if  she  were  thinking  of  nothing  but  her  work. 
She  must  show  no  signs  whatever  that  she  sees  or  hears  what  is  going 
on  among  the  guests. 

The  waitress  must  take  great  care  in  moving  about  the  table  that 
she  does  not  touch  a  guest  or  her  chair,  or  rattle  any  dishes. 

After  each  course  is  served  the  waitress  is  to  remain  in  the  din- 
ing-room, standing  at  a  respectful  distance.  She  should  stand  erect, 
never  propping  herself  against  the  wall. 

If  in  removing  a  course  the  waitress  discovers  that  a  guest  has 
carelessly  or  thoughtlessly  left  a  soiled  fork  or  anything  else  on  the 
table,  it  is  her  duty  to  pick  it  up,  lay  it  unostentatiously  on  the  plate 
she  is  about  to  remove,  and  remove  it.  This  must  only  be  done  when 
removing  a  course. 

There  must  be  no  rattling  of  dishes,  no  banging  of  doors,  and  no 
loud  laughing  or  talking  in  the  kitchen  or  butler's  pantry. 

DRESS  OF  WAITRESS. 

The  dress  of  the  waitress  should  be  the  same  as  for  the  formal 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  235 

luncheon.      A  black  dress  having  long  sleeves  and  a  white  collar  and 
cuffs  worn  with  a  white  bib  apron  and  a  small  white  cap. 

TO  THE  GUESTS. 

A  few  important  points  to  remember  are  as  follows: 

Always  seat  yourself  at  the  dining  table  from  the  right  side  of 
the  chair;  just  slide  in  sideways,  never  backwards.  Also  get  up  from 
the  right  hand  side  of  the  chair.  Sit  erect  with  only  the  lower  part 
of  the  back  touching  the  back  of  the  chair.  Never  pull  the  chair  up 
after  you  are  seated;  for  it  is  supposed  to  have  been  placed  at  the 
right  distance  for  you  to  get  in  comfortably  and  it  is  supposed  to  be 
left  there. 

Fold  your  napkin  in  your  lap,  having  the  central  point  down- 
ward. When  through  leave  the  napkin  unfolded  at  the  left  of  the 
plate. 

Eemember  that  the  hostess  should  be  first  to  rise  from  the  table. 

One  should  take  just  about  as  long  to  eat  each  course  as  does  the 
guest  of  honor,  so  as  to  save  her  the  embarrassment  of  keeping  anyone 
waiting. 

DO  NOT  thank  the  waitress  EVEK.  Tf  there  is  a  bread  stick  or 
the  like  (folded  in  the  napkin)  to  be  used  for  the  soup  course,  it  should 
be  left  on  the  table  or  on  the  service  plate  when  one  has  unfolded  the 
napkin,  and  left  there  until  the  first  course  has  been  eaten. 

NOTES  ON  FORMAL  DINNERS  WITH  SUGGESTIONS  FOR  THE 

HOSTESS 

First  course — Canapes  or  cocktail  (oyster,  clam,  scallop,  fruit) 
or  grape  fruit,  or  blue  points  on  half  shell. 

Second  course — Clear  soup,  consomme  or  bouillon  served  with 
bread  sticks  or  imperial  sticks. 

Third  course — Fish  served  in  shells  or  with  sauce. 

Fourth  course — Entree,  meat  or  chicken  croquettes,  cheese,  mush- 
rooms, sweet  bread,  chicken  liver,  in  timbales  or  croustacles  with  or 
without  sauce.      Roll  without  butter  may  be  served  with  this  course. 

Fifth  course — Roast  lamb,  beef,  turkey  or  pig  (whole)  served  with 
gravy,. potato,  one  vegetable  on  one  plate. 

Sixth  course — Vegetable  entree,  spinach,  celery,  asparagus  tips, 
banana  or  apple  fritters  or  croquettes  with  sauce. 

Seventh  course — Sherbet,  grape,  milk,  lemon,  frappe,  in  glasses 
on  plate  with  doily. 

Eighth  course — Game,  pigeon,  partridge,  quail,  squab,  duck,  ven- 
ison or  bear,  served  with  jelly,  marmalade,  spiced  grape. 

Ninth  course — Salad,  tomato  aspic,  cucumber,  celery  and  apple, 
kumquat,  nut,  celery  and  apple,  fruit  and  nut,  served  with  dressing 
and  sandwiches  of  peanut,  cheese,  lettuce,  peppers,  etc. 


236  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIEXCE  SCHOOL. 

Tenth  course — Dessert,  ice  cream  with  or  without  sauce,  frozen 
pudding,  mousse,  parfait. 

Eleventh  course — Wafers  with  small  fruits  or  crackers  and  cheese. 

Twelfth  course — Cafe  noir,  at  table  or  ladies  in  drawing  room, 
gents  in  smoking  room. 

Table — Always  fine  damask,  no  crease  or  one  lenthwise  of  centre, 
large  napkins. 

Flowers — Low,  with   or  without  border  about  bowl. 

Plate — Service  plate  10  inches,  remains  on  till  first  hot  course  or 
until  dessert.  All  silver  on  if  not  too  great  an  array.  Glass  directly 
at  end  of  knife  for  meat  course  and  filled  two-thirds  full  of  water. 

Wines — Arranged  in  semi-circle  about  head  of  plate. 

Silver — Arranged  from  outside  in  toward  plate  in  order  of  use. 
Forks  at  left,  knives  at  right. 

Space — Silver  and  plate  one  inch  from  edge  of  table.  Guests 
20  inches  apart.  Chairs  only  near  enough  to  table  to  allow  guest  to 
sit  down  without  moving  chair. 

Sitting — Sit  from  right  of  chair,  no  hitch. 

Napkins — Folded  square  and  once  again,  enclosing  bread  stick  or 
roll.  At  close  of  meal  remain  unfolded  or  allowed  to  drop  on  floor. 
Chairs  not  moved. 

Dress — Low  neck,  short  or  no  sleeves,  long  gloves,  jewelry,  fancy 
dress  of  hair  with  ornaments,  gloves  removed  entirely  or  only  hand. 

Announce — Dinner  announced  by  usher  or  maid:  "Dinner  is 
served/' 

Setting  table — When  the  table  is  set  the  following  may  be  on: 
Kadishes,  celery,  olives,  salted  nuts,  bon  bons,  glass  of  water,  wines, 
bread  stick  in  last  fold  of  napkin  and  service  plate  10  inches  in  di- 
ameter. 

Butter,  pepper  and  salt — Not  served  at  formal  meals.  Food 
seasoned  before  serving. 

Knives — Steel  knife  for  roast  and  game  courses,  silver  for  fish 
course. 

Eelishes — All  removed  before  dessert  course. 

Coffee — Served  in  drawing  room  to  ladies,  in  dining  room  with 
cigars  to  gents. 

Finger  bowls — Placed  on  doily,  on  small  plate,  one- third  full  wa- 
ter, with  floating  rose  leaf  or  violet,  etc. 

Crumb  table — At  close  of  the  ninth  course,  using  tray  and  scraper, 
napkins  and  plate  may  be  used  at  luncheon. 

Serve — From  butler's  pantry  or  host  and  hostess  may  serve  at 
table.  If  coffee  is  served  at  table,  full  coffee  service  may  be  used. 
Kefill  two-thirds  without  removing  from  table,  tray  is  not  used  at  for- 
mal meals. 

Passing — To  the  left  of  the  guest. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  237 

Placing — Place  and  remove  from  right  of  guest. 

Host — If  host  be  present,  guest  of  honor  sits  at  his  right,  other- 
wise at  the  right  of  hostess. 

Serving  relishes,  etc. — Pass  olives  with  third  course,  celery  with 
fifth  course,  radishes  with  eighth  course,  nuts  with  tenth  course  and 
bonbons  with  eleventh  course. 


A  FOEMAL  BREAKFAST. 

Time,  11  a.  m. 

Centrepiece — Should  be  of  fruit  or  flowers. 

Setting  of  table — Practically  the  same  as  for  the  other  formal 
meals. 

Finger  bowls — When  fruit  is  served  for  the  first  course,  as  is  gen- 
erally the  case,  the  finger  bowls  should  be  placed  when  the  table  is 
set.  There  should  be  one  at  each  place  on  a  small  plate,  with  a  doily 
underneath  the  bowl;  it  should  be  placed  a  little  to  the  upper  left  of 
each  place.  It  is  not  good  for  one  chemically  to  have  fruit  for  the 
first  course  unless  it  is  grape  fruit.  That  is  really  the  only  fruit  to 
be  served  first;  but  custom  has  it  that  any  fruit  can  be  served  first. 

Bread  and  butter  plates — After  the  first  course,  the  bread  and 
butter  plates  take  the  place  of  the  finger  bowl.  A  ball  of  butter  and 
a  spreader  are  placed  on  the  plate  with  the  bread. 

Silver — The  silver  is  set  quite  as  for  other  formal  meals;  the 
forks  to  the  left,  the  knives  to  the  right,  and  the  fruit  spoon  or  the 
strawberry  fork,  and  the  coffee  spoon  to  the  right  with  the  knives. 
The  same  rules  regarding  the  order  of  placing  apply  here  as  with  other 
formal  meals. 

Glasses — At  the  head  of  the  knife  comes  the  glass. 

Fruit  plates — When  grape  fruit  is  served,  and  for  the  first  course, 
a  plate  with  a  doily  and  the  grape  fruit  on  it  should  be  laid  at  each 
place  when  the  table  is  set;  and  the  fruit  is  to  be  passed. 

Carving  set — Individual  servings  can  be  made  from  the  butler's 
pantry,  but  if  meat  is  served  en  masse  the  carving  set  will  be  needed. 
This  should  be  at  the  host's  end  of  the  table.  At  his  place  should  be 
all  the  necessary  knives,  forks  and  spoons,  as  at  all  the  other  covers. 
To  the  extreme  left  of  all  the  forks  at  his  place  put  the  carving  fork, 
tines  upward,  of  course;  to  the  extreme  right  of  all  the  knives  should 
be  placed  the  carving  knife,  with  the  sharp  edge  towards  the  carver. 
After  the  carving  knife  and  fork  have  been  used,  lay  them  on  a  silver 
or  glass  rest,  known  as  a  rest  for  a  carving  set. 

Sugar,  creamer  and  coffee  pot — The  coffee  is  often  served  from  the 
butler's  pantry,  but  it  is  more  social  to  have  it  served  at  the  table  by  the 
hostess.       The  creamer  and  sugar  and  also  the  cups  and  saucers  are 


238  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

placed  at  the  upper  right  of  the  hostess;  near  to  these  is  placed  the 
coffee  pot  resting  on  a  tile.  Silver  pots  are  always  best  to  use  on  the 
table  because  they  retain  the  heat  best.  Sometimes  individual  coffee 
pots  and  sugars  and  creamers  are  used.  Still  another  way  is  to  have  a 
tray  with  a  tray  cloth;  on  this  the  sugar,  creamer  and  coffee  pot  are 
placed  at  the  right  of  the  hostess. 

Serving  of  breakfast — The  same  rules  apply  here  practically  as 
for  the  luncheon.      A  few  small  changes  are  cited  herewith. 

Tray — Always  use  a  tray  in  serving  the  breakfast;  also  use  the 
tray  for  all  things  passed  to  the  guests.  The  tray  should  be  a  small 
one,  being  only  a  little  larger  than  a  dinner  plate.  On  it  there  should 
be  a  doily  just  a  little  smaller  than  the  tray,  and  just  large  enough 
to  fit  well. 

Cereal — The  cereal  is  the  next  course  after  the  fruit.  Individual 
servings  can  be  brought  in  alone  and  placed  before  the  guest,  or  sev- 
eral separate  servings  in  on  a  silver  tray  and  be  placed  individually. 

The  waitress  should  be  cautioned  not  to  hold  the  cereal  dishes  in 
such  a  way  as  to  get  her  thumb  into  the  cereal,  or  even  part  way; 
teach  her  the  proper  way  to  hold  a  plate,  as  described  in  the  formal 
dinner  notes.  With  this  course  the  cream  and  sugar  are  to  be  passed 
to  the  left  of  each  guest. 

Main  course — Next  comes  the  main  part  of  the  breakfast.  Each 
plate  is  filled  by  the  host  or  hostess  and  placed  by  the  waitress,  or  in- 
dividual servings  are  made  from  the  pantry. 

Coffee — Coffee  is  served  by  the  hostess,  or  brought  in  and  placed 
at  the  right  of  each  guest.  The  handle  of  the  cup  should  be  turned 
away  from  the  guest.  Loaf  sugar  should  be  placed  on  the  edge  of  the 
saucer,  so  that  the  guest  may  take  it  or  leave  it  as  he  chooses. 

Rolls  are  passed. 

Crumbs  are  not  removed  at  a  formal  breakfast. 

*Note — A  silver  tray  is  especially  pretty  to  use. 


8  P.  M.  FORMAL  DINNER. 

First  course — Fruit  cocktail  in  orange  baskets. 

Second  course — Beef  bouillon,  toasted  triscuits. 

Third  course — Fillet  of  fish,  tartare  sauce. 

Fourth  course — Cheese  croquettes. 

Fifth  course — Roast  lamb,  caper  sauce,  new  potatoes,  brussels 
sprouts  creamed. 

Sixth  course — Asparagus  patties. 

Seventh  course — Raspberry  ice. 

Eighth  course — Roast  duck,  olive  and  almond  sauce,  grape  fruit 
marmalade. 

Ninth  course — Kumquat  and  apple  salad,  mayonnaise,  saltines. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  239 

Tenth  course — Pistachio  ice  cream  in  crystal  cups  on  spun  sugar. 
Gold  cake. 

Eleventh  course — Graham  wafers,  dates. 
Twelfth  course — Cafe  noir,  demi  tasse. 

1  P.  M.  FORMAL  LUNCHEON. 

(Ladies  Only.) 
First  course — Sugared  pineapple. 
Second  course — Cream  of  asparagus  puree. 

Third   course — Planked  halibut    (garnished),   potato  glace,   spin- 
ach, French  bread. 

Fourth  course — Creamed  sweet  bread  in  patty  shells. 
Fifth  course — Pepper  salads,  mayonnaise,  cheese  sandwiches. 
Sixth  course — Maple  parfait,  Venetian  cakes. 
Seventh  course — Coffee. 

11  A.  M.  FORMAL  BREAKFAST. 

(Color  Scheme,  Pink,  Green,  Yellow.) 
First  course — Sliced  cucumber,  garnished  with  green  and  pink 
roses  (radish  and  olives). 

Second  course — Light  omelet  with  tomato  sauce. 
Third  course — Creamed  crab  in  bread  croustades. 
Fourth  course — Waffles — orange  sauce. 
Fifth  course — Strawberries  and  cream. 
Sixth  course — Coffee. 


Menus 


WEDDING  BREAKFAST. 

First  course — Melon — iced. 

Second  course — Cream  of  cauliflower  soup,  croutons. 
Third  course — French  breaded  lamb  chops,  French  fried  potatoes, 
hot  biscuit. 

Fourth  course — Creamed  peas  in  timbales. 
Fifth  course — Pineapple  and  celery  salad. 
Sixth  course — Bombe  glace,  wedding  cake. 
Seventh  course — Coffee. 

MENUS  FOR  DINNERS  ON  EASTER  DAY. 

Fancy  Frills  to  Show  Spirit  of  Season  at  the  Table. 

Anchovy  canapes 

Grape  fruit  with  cherry 

Cream  puree  of  asparagus 

Roast  duck,  olive  and  almond  sauce 

Ginger   aspic,   duchess   potatoes   shaped   like'  tiny   chicks    (use 

budless  cloves  for  feet  and  allspice  for  eyes) 

Fried  egg  plant 

Cucumber  tubs  filled 

Marguerite  salad,  mayonnaise  dressing 

Squash  rolls 

Rhubarb  pie 

Frozen  pudding 

Coffee  with  whipped  cream. 

NO.  2. 

Fruit  cocktail  in  orange  baskets 
Spinach  puree,  with  fancy  croutons 

Roast  lamb,  mint  sauce 

New  potatoes,  baked  in  half  shell 

Jellied  cabbage,  celery  curls 

Chicken  timbales,  Spanish  rolls,  currant  jelly 

Stuffed  eggs  on  cress 

Mayonnaise,  olives 

Maple  parfait 

NO.  3. 

Scallop  cocktail  in  green  peppers 

Chicken  consomme,  toasted  triscuit 

Squab  pie  (garnished) 

Parsnip  cakes 

Potato  apples — shapes,  small  chick,  straw  hat,  baseball  club 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  241 

Dressed  tomatoes  in  lettuce  cups 
Mayonnaise,  Swedish  rolls 
Sultana  roll,  pistachio  sauce 
Coffee 

THANKSGIVING  MENU. 

1.  Oyster  cocktail. 

2.  Cream  of  mushroom  soup,  bread  sticks 

3.  Baked  halibut  in  cream,  green  peas,  rolls 

4.  Nut  and  potato  croquettes,  nut  sauce,  olives 

5.  Eoast  turkey,  celery  stuffing,  sweet  potatoes,  cranberry  jelly, 

creamed  onions 

6.  Orange  and  grape  fruit  salad  in  orange  cups,  crisped  crackers 

7.  Mince  pie,  pumpkin  pie,  cheese,  pineapple  ice  cream,  marguer- 
ites, nuts,  fruit,  coffee 

Note — The  sweet  potatoes  are  cooked  with  the  turkey.  Fried  egg- 
plant can  be  substituted  for  the  creamed  onions.  For  a  simpler  meal 
this  menu  can  be  revised  as  follows:  Oyster  cocktail,  baked  halibut, 
croquettes,  whole  turkey,  and  only  one  kind  of  pie. 

CENTBEPIECES  FOE  THE  THANKSGIVING  TABLE. 

It  is  a  very  pretty  idea  to  have  the  centrepiece  of  the  Thanksgiv- 
ing table  something  suggestive  of  the  harvest  season.  A  pumpkin 
hollowed  out  and  filled  with  fruit  makes  a  pretty  centrepiece;  this  is 
even  more  attractive  when  the  pumpkin  is  cut  out  to  represent  a 
basket  with  a  handle  and  is  then  filled  with  fruit. 

Several  sprigs  of  chestnut  burs  arranged  artistically  in  a  pot- 
tery dish  make  a  very  pleasing  centrepiece;  use  bits  of  wire  to  fasten 
on  the  burs  which  may  have  fallen  off,  concealing  this  makeshift  as 
well  as  possible  behind  leaves,  etc. 

Bed  oak  leaves  and  beautifully  colored  maple  leaves,  which  have 
been  pressed,  make  charming  little  mats  for  individual  salt  dishes 
or  nut  dishes. 

OTHEE  THANKSGIVING  MENUS. 

1.  Oyster  on  the  half  shell. 

2.  Soup    (either  cream  of  tomato,  celery  or  potato),  croutons. 

3.  Celery,  salted  almonds. 

4.  Baked  fish  on  clam  shells. 

5.  Eoast  pig. 

6.  Eoast  turkey,  brown  gravy,  crab  apple  jelly,  mashed  potatoes, 

creamed  onions,  squash. 

7.  Plum  pudding,  hard  sauce. 

8.  Mince,  apple,  pumpkin  or  squash  pie. 

9.  Sherbet,  fancy  cakes. 

10.  Fruits,  nuts,  raisins,  candy. 

11.  Ci'ackers,  coffee,  toasted  cheese,  cider. 


242  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

THANKSGIVING  DINNER. 

1.  Blue  points  on  half  shell. 

2.  Cream  of  tomato  soup,  croutons. 

3.  Baked  blue  fish,  tartar  sauce,  celery,  hot  rolls. 

4.  Boast  turkey,  brown  sauce,  chestuut  dressing,  crabapple  jelly, 

baked  onions,   squash,  mashed  potato. 

5.  Plum  pudding,  hard  sauce,  mince,  apple,  pumpkin  pie,  cheese. 

6.  Maple  ice  cream,  lady  fingers. 

7.  Fruits,  nuts,  bon  bons. 

8.  Crackers  and  toasted  cheese. 

9.  Sweet  cider. 

LUNCHEON  MENU— Cold  Winter  Day. 
Potato  soup  Sour  milk  biscuit 

Boast  beef  Lima  beans 

Brown  sauce  Mince  pie 

Bice  croquettes  Coffee 

LUNCHEON  MENU— Early  Summer. 
Cucumber  soup  Asparagus  on  toast 

Boast  chicken  Badish  roses 

Giblet  sauce  Grape  fruit  sherbet  on 

Stuffed  baked  potato  in  half  pineapple 

shell  Sponge  cake 

HOME  LUNCHEON— Summer. 
Fruit  cocktail  Boiled  dressing 

Crab  croquettes,  parsley  Brown  bread,  Cheese 

sauce  sandwiches  (thin) 

Potato  cones,  garnished  Coffee  souffle 

LUNCHEON  MENU— Early  Spring. 
Baked  stuffed  haddock,  Hot  brown  bread 

Soubise  sauce  Green  vegetable  salad,  may- 

Banana  boats  with  pelee  onnaise 

nuts  Bhubarb  pie 

MENU— Well  Balanced. 
Tomato  bisque  Creamed  onions 

Salmon  croquettes,  white  Tea  biscuit 

sauce  with  peas  Cornstarch  mould,  chocolate 

Potato  apples  sauce 

MENU— Later  Spring. 
Lobster  cutlets  Bananas 

Popovers  Strawberry  short  cake 

Creamed  spinach 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  243 

LADIES'  LUNCHEON— Summer. 
Jellied  tongue  Squash  rolls 

Gooseberry  sauce  Nut  and  cherry  jelly, 

Potato  puff  with  whipped  cream 

Celery  curls  Frosted  maple  sugar  cake 

Spinach  croustades  Tea 

SUMMEK  MENU. 

Cold  bouillon  Banana  fritters,  vanilla 

Sliced  chicken  in  aspic  sauce 

Tomato  and  celery  salad,  Parker  house  rolls 

mayonnaise  Milk  sherbet,  sponge  cake 

SUMMER  MENU. 

Puree  of  peas  Hot  graham  gems 

Asparagus  and  nut  salad,  Strawberry  shortcake 

mayonnaise  Grape  juice 

FAMILY  DINNER  (Old-Fashioned.) 

1.  Barley  soup,  toasted  crackers. 

2.  Roast  pig   (whole),  garnished,  cranberry  jelly,  apple  butter, 

baked  onions,  roasted  potatoes,  squash,  raised  rolls. 

3.  Vegetable  salad,  boiled  dressing. 

4.  Steamed  fruit  pudding,  hard  sauce,  old  Cheshire  cheese. 

5.  Fruits,  nuts,  raisins,  coffee. 

MATRON'S  DINNER. 

1.  Grape  fruit,  barley  due. 

2.  Chicken  consomme,  bread  sticks. 

3.  Shrimp  cutlets,  stuffed  peppers. 

4.  Fillet  of  larded  beef,  mushroom  sauce,  asparagus,  mashed  po- 

tato (fancy  cuts). 

5.  Frappe,  blood  orange. 

6.  Phila.  capon,  Bechamel  sauce,  bread  jelly. 

7.  Cucumber  aspic  on  lettuce  hearts,  French  dressing. 

8.  Chocolate  mousse. 

9.  Crackers,  Neufchatel  cheese. 
10.     Coffee,  bon  bons. 

GIRLS'  LUNCHEON. 
Grape  fruit  Mock  terrapin  in  timbales 

Peanut  bisque  Tomato  cups,  mayonnaise, 

Breaded  veal  cutlets,  rolls 

frozen  horseradish  sauce  Plain  ice  cream,  maple 

French  potato  balls  creamed  sauce 


244  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

HOME  LUNCHEON— June. 
Tongue  and  pea  salad,  may-  Strawberry  mousse,  butter 

onnaise  thins 

Hot  biscuit,  rhubarb  mar-  Iced  tea 

malade 

MENU — Late  August. 

Fish  bisque  Parker  house  rolls,   Spanish 

Pea  and  chicken  timbales  rice 

Tomato  and  celery  cups,  Canteloupe  with   raspberry 

mayonnaise  frappe 

MENU— July  (Heavy) 

Fancy  orange  baskets,  cold  Stuffed  eggs,  mayonnaise 

Cold  sliced  turkey,  dressing 

Swedish  rolls  Maple  mousse 

Philadelphia  relish  Iced  coffee 

COUKSE  SPRING  LUNCHEON— May. 

1.  Cream  lettuce  soup,  bread  sticks. 

2.  Crab  flakes  on  toast,  radishes 

3.  French  chops,  Hollandaise  sauce,  baked  squash,  potato  roses, 

luncheon  rolls. 

4.  Waldorf  salad,  mayonnaise,  olives. 

5.  Marshmallow  fruit  cream,  sponge  hearts,  salted  almonds,  can- 

died orange  peel. 

6.  Coffee. 

YELLOW  LUNCHEON— Daffodils. 

1.  Egg  canapes. 

2.  Clam  broth,  orange  rolls. 

3.  Creamed  mushrooms  in  bread  boxes. 

4.  Fillet  of  chicken  with  yellow  P>echamel  sauce,  Delmonico  po- 

tatoes, preserved  kumquats. 

5.  Fruit  salad,  banana  and  orange,  mayonnaise. 

6.  Yellow  mousse,  gold  cake. 

7.  Coffee,  salted  almonds,  yellow  bon  bons. 

MENU— July. 
Celery  puree  Mayonnaise 

Fish  au  gratin  en  coquille  Cheese  sandwiches 

Cucumber  boats  with  aspar-  Pineapple  sponge 

agus  tips  Cold  water 

MENU— August. 
Iced  cantaloupe  Baby  rolls 

Creamed  mushroom  caps  in  Orange  baskets  with  berries, 

bread  baskets  whipped  cream 

Fruit  salad,  mayonnaise  Cocoa 


Household  Hints 


To  remove  paint  from  windows — Rub  with  caniphene  and  sand. 
Rub  with  hot  vinegar.     If  fresh — turpentine. 

To  clean  marble — Solution  of  HNaC03  plus  CaC03  or  whiting. 
To  clean  brown  shoes — Rub  with  soft  cloth  dipped  in  methylated 
spirit.     Rub  with  brown  boot  cream.     Let  stand  24  hours.     Polish. 

Painted  Walls — Wash,  then  rub  with  woolen  cloth  dipped  in  equal 
parts  of  boiled  linseed  oil  and  Turp. 

Indelible  Ink — Soak  in  salt  solution.  Wash  in  Ammonia  H20  or 
10  grains  of  Cyanide  of  Potas.  plus  5  grains  of  Iodide  plus  1  oz.  H20. 
Poison. 

REMOVAL  OF  STAINS. 
Fruit — Boiling  water. 
Tea — Concentrated  salt  solution 
Grass — WTarm  alcohol. 
Chocolate — Cold  water  first. 
Coffee — Warm  naphtha  soap  solution. 
Blood — Cold  water,  warm  naphtha  soap  solution. 
Oil — Naphtha,  benzine. 
Grease — Gasoline. 

Pitch — Lard,  naphtha  soap  solution,  turpentine. 
Iodine — Turpentine. 
Vaseline — Chlorinated  soda  water. 
Paint — Turpentine,  gasoline. 

Indelible  ink — Chloride  of  copper,  hyposulphite  soda. 
Wax — French  chalk  paste. 

Mud — Dry  and  brush,  cover  with  salt  and  flour. 
Tar — Lard,  oil  of  turpentine,  naphtha  soap  solution. 

TO  CLEAN. 

Silver — Ag  N03  sol. 
Brass— 5%  HC1  sol. 
Copper — Kerosene. 

Zinc — 5%  HC1  or  warm  salt  and  vinegar. 
Cut  glass — Concentrated  HC1. 
Marble — Whiting  (CaC03)  and  soda  and  water. 
Polished  table — Raw  linseed  oil. 
Mortar  on  windows — Stiff  brush  and  hot  vinegar. 
Paint  on  windows — Caniphene  and  sand. 
White  straw  hat — 5%  oxalic  acid  followed  by  thin  gum 
arabic  sol. 


246  TEE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

White  woolen — Finely  powdered  rice,  applied  with  a  firm 

cloth. 
Rugs — Sprinkle  with  salt  water  and  brush  hard. 
Lace — Fasten  lace  to  thick  paper,  sprinkle  with  calcined 

magnesia. 
Gold  and  silver  lace — Powdered  burnt  alum.    Apply  with 

fine  brush. 
Velvet — Dust  first,  sponge  with  benzine,  stretch  right  side 

up  over  basin  of  boiling  water.      Brush   with   whisk 

broom  in  direction  of  nap. 
Restore  color — Rub  with  chloroform. 
Ivory — Hydrogen  peroxide. 
White  gloves — Put  on  gloves,  wash  in  gasoline,  rinse  in  second 

solution,  dry  on  hands  in  open  air. 
Oil  cloth,  linoleum,  matting — Brush  first,    hike    warm    water, 

naphtha  soap  and  1  T.  kerosene,  1  T.  salt.      Dip  in  broom 

bag,  wring  out  dry,  put  on  broom,  rub  floor  lightly. 

Note — Broom  bag  made  of  canton  flannel  or  outing 
flan,nel. 

HARDWOOD  FLOORS  (Waxed.) 
Scour  with  steel  wool  if  marred  or  scratched,  polish  with  beeswax 
or  paraffin  dissolved  in  turpentine.  For  light  cleaning  rub  lightly 
with  gasoline,  open  windows.  Never  put  water  on  waxed  floors. 
To  remove  all  the  wax,  use  1  lb.  sal  soda  and  1  lb.  slaked  lime  to  1 
pail  water,  dry  and  wash  in  turpentine. 

HARDWOOD  FLOORS   (Varnished  or  Shellacked.) 
Clean  with  ground  pumice  stone  or  salt  if  blackened,  brush,  rub 
with  gasoline,  turpentine  or  kerosene  till  dry,  cloth  wrung  dry  out 
naphtha  soap  solution. 

HARDWOOD  FLOORS   (Oiled.) 
Brush  with  soft  hair  brush,  rub  with  dry  mop;  wash  in  oxalic 
acid,  wipe  dry;  wash  in  gasoline,  let  dry  and  air  one  day;  reoil  in  raw 
linseed  oil,  not  too  thick;  rub  dry. 

JAVELLE  WATER— For  Removing  Stains. 
14  lb.  chloride  of  lime. 

1  lb.  sal  soda. 

2  qts.  boiling  water. 

Dissolve,  settle,  decant  the  clear  liquid.       Turn  hot  flatirons  on 
side  to  cool;  clean  with  kerosene  and  fine  sand. 

TO  TEST  GREEN  WALL  PAPER  FOR  ARSENIC. 
Dip  a  sample  of  the  paper  in  aqua  ammonia.      If  arsenic  is  pres- 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  247 

ent  in  quantities  to  be  dangerous  the  paper  will  turn  from  green  to 
b.lue. 

TO  SET  COLOKS. 
10%   salt  sol.,  stand  5  min.,  or  1  gal.  water  to  2  T.  turpentine, 
soak  5  min.;  2%  HC1  sol.,  soak  5  min. 

HINTS  ON  TABLE  ETIQUETTE. 

1.  Hair  and  dress  tidy  in  appearance  before  coming  to  table. 

2.  Sit  into  chair  from  chair's  right. 

3.  Do  not  shake  table  in  sitting  down  or  in  cutting  food. 

4.  Never  drag  chairs.       Place,  by  lifting,  back  to  table  in  all 
meals  except  formal. 

5.  Never  shove  dishes  on  table. 

6.  Pass  dishes  by  extending  handle  toward  recipient. 

7.  Feel  it  incumbent  upon  you  to  assist  in  the  conversation. 

8.  Eating  often  sets  up  mucus  flow  in  the  nose;  blow  nose  before 

coming  to  table.    Do  not  sniff  at  table ;  wipe  nose  quietly. 

9.  Do  not  fumble  or  play  with  dishes. 

10.  Never  suck  or  pick  the  teeth  at  table. 

11.  Do  not  try  to  talk  with  mouth  full. 

12.  Any  objectionable  matter  getting  into  mouth  should  be  quick- 

ly removed  with  fingers  and  placed  to  one  side.    Using  a  nap- 
kin makes  it  more  conspicuous. 

13.  If  you  accidentally  spill  anything,  do  what  you  can  to  rectify 
it  quickly  without  saying  anything  about  it  or  calling  others' 
attention  to  your  misfortune. 

14.  Dishes  should  not  be  clicked  against  others  in  placing,  or 
shoved. 

15.  Knife  and  fork  should  be  left  parallel  on  plate. 

16.  Never  leave  spoon  in  cup  of  liquid — tea,  coffee,  cocoa. 

17.  Be  prompt  at  meals  and  stand  at  chair  till  all  are  ready  to 
sit. 

18.  Wait  each  course  till  all  are  served  before  eating. 

19.  Do  not  scrape  or  rescrape  auy  dish  getting  last  vestige. 

20.  Burying  one's  face  in  the  plate  and  eating  hastily  is  bad  taste. 
21. — Do  not  recline  in  chair  when  eating. 

22.  Look  at  the  person  to  whom  you  pass  anything. 

23.  Do  not  touch  hand  to  hair  without  absolutely  necessary. 

24.  Leave  napkin  in  ring.  If  one  eats  properly,  rarely,  if  ever,  is 
it  necessary  to  soil  the  table  linen. 

TIME,  ENEBGY  AND  MONEY-SAVING  DEVICES. 
Electric  Power  in  the  House. 
Washing  machine,   sewing  machine,   mangle,   clothes  dryer,   vac- 


248  THE  WORCESTER  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  SCHOOL. 

uum  cleaner,  dish  washing  machine,  silver  cleaning  pan  (chemical)  — 
for  large  families. 

Wheel  tray,  fireless-cooker,  incinerator,  electric  range,  instan- 
taneous hot-water  heater  (for  summer),  electric  and  gas  flatirons, 
steam  cooker,  chopping  bowl  and  knife,  dumb  waiter,  quart  flour  sift- 
er, tungsten  lamps,  timbale  iron,  kitchen  stool,  small  kitchen  rocker, 
aluminum  ware  of  all  kinds,  frying  basket,  oiled  paper,  self-basting 
roasting  pan,  chemical  thermometer  (floating),  oven  pyrometer  (when 
it  works),  lobster  shears,  measuring  cup,  paper  bag  (Soyer's)  for 
certain  foods,  (fish,  chicken),  household  scales  and  balances,  coffee 
percolator,  chafing  dish;  knives — bread,  meat,  cake,  vegetable;  fancy 
moulds,  potato  and  vegetable  press,  puree  apparatus,  grape  fruit 
knife,  French  potato  ball  cutter,  fancy  vegetable  cutters,  pastry  tubes 
and  bag,  patty  shell  outfit,  magic  covers,  safety  gas  lighter,  sink 
strainer,  electric  bread  toaster,  soap  shake,  dry  mop,  dustless  duster, 
dish  drain,  vegetable  brush,  asbestos  mats  and  holders,  slate  and 
pencil  (hung  in  kitchen),  list  of  menus  (seasonable),  card  catalogue 
of  recipes,  meat  board,  bread  board,  onion  board,  long-handled  forks, 
trivets,  long-handled  colander,  shelf  near  stove  for  seasonings,  rack 
with  tray  (near  stove)  for  holding  spoons  in  cooking,  rings  for 
poached  eggs,  pie  lifter,  cork  screw. 

NOT  LABOK  SAVING  FOE  SMALL  FAMILY. 

Meat  grinder,  bread  mixer,  egg  separator,  apple  corer  (wasteful), 
omelet  pan. 

True  economy  is  a  generous  provision  of  essentials;  careful  super- 
vision of  non-essentials  and  self-control  in  handling  the  financial 
budget. 

DOMESTIC  SCIENCE  BIJBLIOGKAPHY. 

American  School  of  Home  Economics  Library — 4  large  volumes. 
Household  Science  and  Art. 
Practical  Dietetics. 
Hostess  of  Today. 
Miss  Farmer's  Cook  Book. 
Oread  Publications. 
Government  Bulletins. 
Cooking  and  Serving. 
Mrs.  Ellen  H.  Richards'  Books. 
Barrows'  Home  Science  Cook  Book. 
Miss  Parloa's  Home  Economics. 
Social  Usages  at  Washington. 
Table  Etiquette. 
Janet  McKenzie  Hill's  Books. 
Mrs.  Lincoln's  Cook  Book. 


LABORATORY  COOK  BOOK.  249 

Food  Analysis  and  Composition — Leach. 
Halliburton's  Chemical  Physiology. 
Whitcomb  &  -Barrow's  Publications. 
Teachers'  College  Bulletins — Columbia  Univ. 
The  Fireless  Cooker. 
Soyer's  Paper  Bag  Cookery. 
Etc.,  Etc. 

Some  of  these  recipes  were  compiled  from  the  following  authorities : — 

Miss  F.  M.  Farmer — Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book. 

Mrs.  Mary  J.  Lincoln — Boston  Cook  Book. 

Miss  Maria  Parloa — Kitchen  Companion. 

Mrs.  V.  H.  Larned — The  Hostess  of  Today,  The  Little  Epicure. 

Miss  Mary  Ronald — The  Century  Cook  Book. 

Teachers'  College  Collection  of  Recipes. 

The  Vital  Question. 

Family  Recipes. 


